--- PAGE 1 ---
arXiv:2505.18218v1  [cs.CL]  23 May 2025
CoMet: Metaphor-Driven Covert Communication
for Multi-Agent Language Games
Shuhang Xu♢† and Fangwei Zhong♢†B,
♢School of Artificial Intelligence, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China
† Engineering Research Center of Intelligent Technology and Educational Application,
Ministry of Education, Beijing, China
BCorrespondence to: fangweizhong@bnu.edu.cn
Abstract
Metaphors are a crucial way for humans to ex-
press complex or subtle ideas by comparing
one concept to another, often from a differ-
ent domain. However, many large language
models (LLMs) struggle to interpret and ap-
ply metaphors in multi-agent language games,
hindering their ability to engage in covert com-
munication and semantic evasion, which are
crucial for strategic communication. To ad-
dress this challenge, we introduce CoMet, a
framework that enables LLM-based agents
to engage in metaphor processing.
CoMet
combines a hypothesis-based metaphor rea-
soner with a metaphor generator that improves
through self-reflection and knowledge integra-
tion. This enhances the agents’ ability to in-
terpret and apply metaphors, improving the
strategic and nuanced quality of their interac-
tions. We evaluate CoMet on two multi-agent
language games—Undercover and Adversarial
Taboo—which emphasize “covert communica-
tion” and “semantic evasion”. Experimental
results demonstrate that CoMet significantly
enhances the agents’ ability to communicate
strategically using metaphors.
1
Introduction
In human social cognition, metaphors transcend
mere rhetorical devices to constitute fundamental
building blocks of communication. The power of
metaphors lies in their ability to distill intricate con-
cepts into accessible features, enriching the com-
municative landscape of multi-agent interactions.
In dynamic interactions, metaphors can also serve
as signals, hinting at underlying intentions or emo-
tions that might otherwise remain obscured.
The understanding and use of metaphors for
communication have great value and necessity in
real-life scenarios. For example, metaphors can
serve as a “natural language version of asymmetric
encryption” to protect trade secrets and personal
privacy. In international negotiations, metaphori-
cal expressions like “weather forecasting” can sig-
nal strategic shifts without explicit commitment,
functioning as a “weak identity verification” tool
among trusted parties. On the other hand, mis-
understanding metaphors in real-world applica-
tions can lead to communication breakdowns and a
poorer user experience (Lakoff and Johnson, 2008;
Falkum and Köder, 2020; Thibodeau et al., 2019;
Al-Azary, 2019; Group, 2007). Most importantly,
since metaphors are intrinsic to human language,
enhancing AI’s ability to understand and gener-
ate metaphors can improve human-AI alignment,
enabling systems to understand human language
expressions more comprehensively. It is essential
for achieving human-level social interactions.
Recent studies have increasingly utilized large
language models (LLMs) as the foundation of AI
agents to communicate and interact with humans
or other agents, yielding impressive results (Guo
et al., 2024; Xu et al., 2024; Li, 2025; Amadeus
et al., 2024). In addition, there has been notable
progress in research on metaphor understanding
and generation using LLMs (Kim et al., 2023; Lin
et al., 2024; Aono et al., 2024).
However, Current LLM agents exhibit catas-
trophic failures in contexts with metaphors due
to literal interpretation bias. For example, we eval-
uated the performance of LLM agents using two
strategic language games: Undercover (Xu et al.,
2024) and Adversarial Taboo (Cheng et al., 2024).
These games test agents’ abilities to use complex
communication strategies, particularly metaphors.
In Undercover, agents employ metaphors for con-
cealment and deception, a concept we term “con-
cept camouflage.” In Adversarial Taboo, the agents
need to bypass forbidden words through reasoning
and misdirection, addressing the “semantic avoid-
ance” challenge. Our evaluation reveals that LLM
agents, lacking metaphorical reasoning capabilities,
struggle to implement these strategies effectively.

--- PAGE 2 ---
Straightforward
Concealment
Metaphor
It’s too general
to guess.
I’m not sure
about their
team.
There can be
multiple
interpretations.
(Metaphor Reasoning)
They must be describing
“butterfly”.
It is a beautiful insect.
they must be
describing
“butterfly”.
It is nature’s paintbrush.
This clue
clearly points
to “butterfly”.
The civilian agent identified their
teammate, but the undercover
agent guessed their word.
The undercover agent failed to guess
the word, but the civilian agent didn't
recognize their teammate either.
The civilian agent successfully identified
their teammate, and the undercover
agent failed to guess their word.
It is a insect.
Figure 1: Comparison of three communication strategies—Straightforward Description, Concealment, and Metaphor-
ical Description—in Undercover. In this example, a civilian describes a “butterfly”, and the reactions of the two
players are shown. In the Straightforward method, the civilian successfully identifies their teammate, but the under-
cover agent guesses the word. In Concealment, the civilian’s vague clue leads to confusion, with the undercover
agent failing to guess the word and the civilian unable to identify their teammate. The Metaphor method allows the
civilian to subtly describe the word, leading to a correct identification by the civilian agent, while the undercover
agent fails to guess the word.
To overcome these limitations, we introduce
CoMet, a framework designed to enhance LLMs’
ability to reason with and generate metaphors.
CoMet integrates two key components: a metaphor
reasoning module based on hypothesis testing,
and a metaphor generation module that leverages
knowledge injection and experience accumulation
for continuous self-improvement. The metaphor
reasoning module enables the agent to understand
and expand metaphors for covert communication,
and the metaphor generator produces strategic,
context-sensitive speech for effective communica-
tion in multi-agent games. We tested CoMet on
two multi-agent language games: Undercover and
Adversarial Taboo. Undercover divides multiple
players into two teams, with most players receiv-
ing the same word and a few players (undercover
agents) receiving a different word. Players take
turns describing words and voting to find the un-
dercover agents, while the undercover agents try
to hide their identities as much as possible. Ad-
versarial taboos consist of attackers and defenders.
Attackers need to guide defenders to say a secret
word, while defenders need to guess the word. Spe-
cific game rules can be found in the appendix B.
Figure 1 shows an example from Undercover,
where civilians use metaphors to encode communi-
cation and conceal private information that benefits
the undercover agents. We conduct a thorough
evaluation of the agents’ performance on both Un-
dercover and Adversarial Taboo. The quantitative
and qualitative results demonstrate that the use of
metaphors enables LLM agents to effectively apply
complex communication strategies, such as con-
cealment, deception, and misdirection, in multi-
agent language games.
Our key contributions are as follows: 1) Explo-
ration of a new research direction: We introduce
the concept of using metaphors in communication-
based games, aiming to expand the strategic options
available to multi-agent systems and explore how
metaphorical reasoning can enhance agent interac-
tions. 2) Effective framework: We present CoMet,
a framework designed to facilitate metaphorical rea-
soning and generation in agents. This framework
encourages agents to adopt a range of communi-
cation strategies, including metaphor-based con-
cealment, deception, and misdirection, to improve
their performance in multi-agent language games.
3) Experiments and resources: We conduct a set
of experiments to evaluate the performance of vari-
ous LLMs on two benchmark games, Undercover
and Adversarial Taboo, offering insights into the
agents’ ability to employ metaphor-driven commu-
nication strategies. Ablation studies are included
to examine the impact of each component within
the framework. Additionally, we provide the code
for Undercover and a collected word dataset to
facilitate further exploration and development.

--- PAGE 3 ---
2
Related Works
Metaphors in Natural Language Processing.
The importance of metaphors in natural language
processing (NLP) is widely recognized (Shutova,
2010; Veale et al., 2022), with extensive research
focusing on metaphor detection, reasoning, gener-
ation, and dataset creation (Li et al., 2023; Mao
et al., 2024; Tong et al., 2024; Reimann and Schef-
fler, 2024; Lin et al., 2024; Jia and Li, 2024). With
the rapid advancement of large language models
(LLMs), researchers have shown that LLMs can
process metaphors (Kim et al., 2023; Tong et al.,
2024; Tian et al., 2024; Liu et al., 2022). How-
ever, existing research mainly focuses on address-
ing static text data, while the use of metaphors in
dynamic, interactive multi-agent scenarios, such
as multi-agent language games, has received lim-
ited attention. This study explores the integration
of metaphor understanding, reasoning, and genera-
tion into multi-agent language interactions, aiming
to uncover more nuanced communication patterns
during complex interactions.
Multi-Agent Language Games.
With the ad-
vancement of LLMs, researchers have utilized lan-
guage games as interactive environments to ex-
amine multi-agent interactions. These games are
generally categorized into three types: adversarial
games, cooperative games, and mixed games. The
adversarial games, such as Diplomacy (Mukobi
et al., 2023; Guan et al., 2024) and Adversarial
Taboo (Yao et al., 2021), focus on maximum agents’
self-interest through adversarial strategies. The co-
operative games, such as Referential Game (Yuan
et al., 2020), require agents to collaborate toward
shared objectives. The mixed games not only coop-
eration among teammates but also compete against
some adversaries, such as Werewolf (Xu et al.,
2023), Avalon (Light et al., 2023), and Chameleon
(Xu et al., 2024). These language games neces-
sitate decision-making under incomplete informa-
tion, with clear victory conditions and specific ac-
tion goals. Undercover (Xu et al., 2024) also high-
lights cooperation and competition but adds com-
plexity by keeping the agent’s role unknown, chal-
lenging the reasoning process further. To explore
covert communication, we focus on the game set-
tings with adversaries, specifically adversarial and
mixed games. Thus, we select Adversarial Taboo
and Undercover, representing the adversarial and
mixed games, to investigate how agents utilizing
metaphorical reasoning perform across different
task settings.
Multi-Agent Communication With LLMs.
To
enhance the capabilities of LLM-based agents in
multi-agent language games, various approaches
have been proposed, including reasoning-guided
prompt engineering (Wei et al., 2022; Zhao et al.,
2023; Yao et al., 2023), reflection-based self-
improvements (Light et al., 2024; Xu et al., 2023;
Cheng et al., 2024), and memory-augmented archi-
tectures (Shinn et al., 2023; Chen et al., 2023; Guan
et al., 2024), among others. Current multi-agent
language games often involve both cooperation
and confrontation, where agents’ speech is broad-
cast to both teammates and opponents, thereby
constraining their communication and decision-
making. Covert communication with teammates,
while safeguarding private information, could gain
a strategic advantage by misleading adversaries.
However, the use of metaphors for covert commu-
nication in multi-agent settings has been largely
unexplored.
3
Metaphor-Aware LLM Agent
3.1
Overview
Game Setup.
Taking Undercover as an example,
there are N players in the game. At the beginning,
each player receives a secret word from a pair of
similar words (W1, W2). These words are assigned
to the civilian and undercover teams, with only a
few players receiving the undercover word, i.e.,
PUnd.
Assign
←−−−−W1, PCiv.
Assign
←−−−−W2. Players on
the same team share the same secret word, but
they are unaware of their roles and teammates, as
sharing the secret word is prohibited. Players will
speak in a random order during the speaking phase,
and then vote simultaneously during the voting
phase. As the speaking and voting phases alternate,
the game progresses until a team wins. It is now
player i’s turn (i ∈{1, . . . , N}) to think and speak.
Adversarial Taboo can be seen as a simplified two-
player game in which one word is given to one
player, with each player’s role being known.
CoMet Framework.
We introduce CoMet, a
framework that enables Covert Communication
by using Metaphors to implement strategies like
misdirection and concealment.
Figure 2 pro-
vides an overview of CoMet (Communicating with
Metaphor). The agent begins by extracting initial
features F from their observations O of other play-
ers’ behaviors and speech content, through the Fea-

--- PAGE 4 ---
Metaphor Reasoner
Dialogue History
Player 1 : “It has soft flesh.”
Player 2 : “It is a yellow fruit.”
Player 3 : “This thing has a core.”
Player 4 : “It is holding a shield.”
······
Player 1 voted player 2 in round 1.
Player 2 voted player 5 in round 1.
Player 3 voted player 2 in round 1.
······
Voting History
Self-Moniter
Strategy Planner
Comms 
Strategy
Metaphor Generator
Self-play
My secret word is
pineapple. What is the
other word? Am I a civilian
or an undercover agent?
What strategy should I
adopt?
Voter
Action
pineapple
Metaphorical
Speech
Unfolded Metaphors
Feature Extractor
Other players mentioned these features:
yellow, fruit, with a core, and soft flesh.
Some features can match my word
'pineapple' except “the soft flesh”. This
may be a clue for me to guess another
word. The word is probably also yellow
fruit, but the flesh is soft, 
I guess it's mango.
Features
Guesses
Player 4 said it was holding a shield, which
is very disconnected from the descriptions
of other players. They are likely using a
metaphor. 
Pineapples have characteristics such as
large body size and hard outer shell. After
hypothesis-testing, I believe that “shield” is
likely implying the hard shell of the
pineapple, indicating that Player 4 is my
teammate.
Social Belief
Now I know that the words for the two
teams are "pineapple" and "mango".
Based on the speeches and voting
results, I believe that Player 3, Player 4,
and myself (Player 5) all belong to the
Pineapple team.
Belief Mapper
The Pineapple team has the majority of
players, so that our identities are
civilians.
Identity Cognition
I have identified the player's identity and
now I need to develop a speaking strategy.
Since I am a civilian, I should accurately
describe my words so that my teammates can
identify my civilian identity and vote
together to eliminate the undercover agents.
1.According to my strategy, I want to describe a
unique feature of a pineapple. I chose to describe
the leaves of pineapple, and my original speech is:
“It has green hard leaves at the top.”
2.I chose to describe the leaves of pineapple.Based
on metaphor theory and successful concealment
experience in memory, the metaphorical speech I
ultimately adopted for speech is as follows:
“It wears a crown.”
Experience
Knowledge
To win the game, I need to eliminate undercover
players. Given the voting results from the
previous round, my teammates are now even
more skeptical of Player 2. Therefore, I have the
best chance of expelling him by voting for Player
2 in this round. I vote for Player 2.
SPEAK:“It wears a crown.”
VOTE: PLAYER 2
Knowledge
Guidance
Experience
Guidance
Figure 2: Overview of the CoMet framework, illustrated within the “concept camouflage” task in Undercover. The
agent starts by extracting features from the game state, including player behavior and available clues. The Metaphor
Reasoner identifies and expands metaphors to aid in interpretation. As the game progresses, the agent uses the
Belief Mapper to build beliefs about other players’ roles and tracks its own identity with the Self-Monitor. With
this understanding, the Strategy Planner formulates a communication and action strategy. The agent then generates
metaphorical speech through the Metaphor Generator to communicate covertly. Finally, it votes according to its
assessment, while new dialogue and voting histories are recorded to inform future decisions.
ture Extractor. These features are then passed to the
Metaphor Reasoner, which checks for metaphors
and expands their meaning through hypothesis test-
ing. The agent next builds its beliefs M about
the roles of other players using the Belief Mapper.
The Self-Monitor continuously tracks the agent’s
own identity I to ensure alignment with the correct
game objectives. With this understanding, the Strat-
egy Planner formulates a comprehensive strategy S
that includes both communication and action. The
agent then generates metaphorical speech through
the Metaphor Generator to communicate covertly.
Finally, the agent executes the communication and
action components of its strategy through the Ac-
tor, performing the actions A specified by the game
rules to achieve its goals.
In the following, we detail each step of CoMet
using the “concept camouflage” task in Undercover,
where agents employ metaphors for covert commu-
nication. The detailed prompting template for each
module is introduced in Appendix F.
3.2
Feature Extractor
In multi-agent language games, agents primarily
rely on the language of other players to make deci-
sions. Storing observations of other players’ speech
and actions ON
α=1 and filtering out valuable infor-
mation Fi from the conversation is essential, and
different game rules R also affect how information
is shared and interpreted.
H ←H′ ∪{Oα}N
α=1
(1)
Fi = Extracted-Feature{H, R}
(2)
In Undercover, all players take turns describing
their words. Therefore, player i needs to analyze
the descriptions made by other players and extract
the characteristics of the words. They will catego-
rize the descriptions into three types: detailed de-
scriptions of their own word, broad descriptions of
their own word, and descriptions that do not match
their own word. For example, if player i’s word
is “pineapple”, then “scaly rough skin” would be a
detailed description, “yellow fruit” would be a gen-
eral description, and “skin with red spots” would
be a description that does not match the word. The
descriptions that do not match the word essentially
describe the characteristics of another word. Play-
ers gradually collect these features and, once they
have built enough confidence, they guess the other
word to support their subsequent actions.

--- PAGE 5 ---
tethered by a string
H0：It's a metaphor for kites
H1：It’s a metaphor for other word, like paper airplane, bamboo flydragon, etc.
Feature of kite:
Metaphor expansion:
can fly
man-made
Lifeless
Action
Emotion
Struction
Hypothesis testing decision:
Describing a thing that be pulled  (0.6)
Describing a thing that can fly.  (0.3)
Describing bird species.  (0.1)
Hypothesis testing supports H0
It is a homesick bird.
Figure 3: The metaphor reasoning process based on
hypothesis testing when players holding the word “kite”
encounter the statement “homesick bird.” The process
involves hypothesizing whether the metaphor refers to a
kite (H0) or another object (H1), followed by analysis of
features such as flight, lifelessness, and being tethered.
Through metaphor expansion and hypothesis testing,
the model determines that the metaphor best fits the
description of a kite, supporting H0.
3.3
Metaphor and Belief Reasoner
Hypothesis-Based Metaphor Reasoner.
This
module is used to filter other players’ descriptions,
checking if they contain metaphors. Suppose the
agent determines that a description does not align
with the focus of the current game. In that case,
it will attempt to interpret it as a metaphor and
uncover its underlying meaning. To enhance the
effectiveness of metaphor reasoning, we employ
knowledge injection and hypothesis testing. To be
specific, we adopt a widely accepted linguistic the-
ory of metaphors from (Lakoff and Johnson, 2008)
as knowledge input for the agents, which can assist
LLMs in better metaphor reasoning. This theory
classifies metaphors into ontological metaphors,
structural metaphors, and spatial metaphors. The
pseudocode of the reasoning process is available in
Appendix C.
Figure 3 shows an example of the hypothesis-
based metaphor reasoning process.
Since our
framework aims to use metaphors to achieve covert
communication—in Undercover, civilians convey
to their teammates “we share the same word” with-
out the undercover agent discovering the content of
the word—the metaphor reasoning here does not
require deciphering the true meaning behind the
metaphor. Instead, it only needs to make a yes-
or-no judgment. This method simplifies the tradi-
tional metaphor interpretation process into a binary
classification mechanism, achieving the goal while
significantly reducing the semantic complexity of
conventional metaphorical communication.
Belief Mapper. After extracting the relevant
features (Eq. 2), the agent infers the belief of other
players, denoted by M−i with first-order theory of
mind (ToM) reasoning and the game rules. Based
on the private information revealed through the
received speeches, the agent will attempt to infer
their identity I−i, role R−i, strategy S−i, and other
relevant factors.
M−i = {I−i, R−i, S−i} = Estimate(Fi)
(3)
In Undercover, player i will classify other play-
ers based on the categorized features: players who
describe detailed characteristics of the word are
considered teammates, players whose descriptions
do not match the word are classified as opponents,
and those who provide vague descriptions are cate-
gorized as undecided.
Self-Monitor. In multi-agent language games
involving identity uncertainty, it is crucial to iden-
tify one’s own role based on feedback from other
players. Under this module, player i attempts to
infer its own identity Ii by leveraging the extracted
feature Fi and beliefs about other players M−i.
I′
i = Self-Awareness(Fi, M−i)
(4)
As the game progresses, the agent’s understanding
of its identity will be updated and refined, i.e., Ii ←
I′
i, and the number of undecided players decreases.
Once the roles of most players have been accurately
inferred, player i will use the game rule of “most
are civilians, few are undercover” to deduce their
identity and clarify the objective.
3.4
Strategy Planner
Now it is the key module of the basic frame-
work—we want the agent to not only analyze, rea-
son, and make decisions, but also to employ com-
plex communication strategies S′
i, such as conceal-
ment and misdirection. Since LLMs do not inher-
ently use these methods, we need to provide the
agent with guidance Gs (s ∈S), helping it de-
velop more sophisticated communication strategies.
Since some strategies require multiple rounds of
execution, the strategies are passed through rounds.
Each time a strategy is generated, it refers to histor-
ical strategies Si, and the generated strategy also
provides suggestions and reminders for subsequent
strategies.
S′
i = Comms-Strategy(Fi, Mi, Ii, Si, Gs) (5)
Si ←S′
i
(6)
In the original LLM agent behavior without the
CoMet framework, we found that the LLM agent,

--- PAGE 6 ---
while playing Undercover, would always directly
and accurately describe its own word, leading to
the exposure of all players’ identities after just one
round of descriptions. To address this, we require
the player to adopt self-protection strategies when
uncertain about their identity. At the beginning
of the game, players are encouraged to describe
broader and vaguer characteristics of their word
to avoid revealing their identity. In each round,
the player decides on their speech strategy based
on the features of the word they’ve analyzed, their
guesses about the other word, and their awareness
of their own identity. If a player believes they are
a civilian, they will balance providing details and
concealing the features of their word to help team-
mates identify their role. However, if the player
believes they are undercover and have figured out
the civilian’s word, they will stop describing their
own word and start describing the civilian’s word
instead, attempting to deceive the opponents, blend
into the civilian group, and ultimately secure a win.
3.5
Self-improving Actor
Metaphor Generator. During the speaking phase,
the agent will select the corresponding communi-
cation skills based on the established strategy and
generate the content of the speech Ai for this round
in accordance with the game rules and the informa-
tion to be conveyed.
Ai = Speak(Si)
(7)
Once the communication strategy is formulated,
the agent’s speech will no longer be straightfor-
ward. Instead, it will involve deception, misdirec-
tion, or concealment, expressed through metaphors.
We continue to inject relevant metaphor theories
into the prompts to assist the agent in generating
metaphors effectively.
Current research on LLMs and metaphors
mainly focuses on detection and reasoning, while
generating high-quality metaphors remains a chal-
lenge. We aim to enhance LLMs’ metaphor gener-
ation through self-play in Undercover. By accumu-
lating data from self-play, the agent uses game out-
comes and others’ interpretations as feedback to re-
fine its metaphor generation skills. Each metaphor
creates a reference experience, including its mean-
ing, interpretations, and suggested revisions. In fu-
ture games, the agent selects relevant experiences
from the reference pool to improve its prompts and
generate more effective metaphors.
Voter. In Undercover game, after the speaking
round, a voting round follows, where each player
votes for other players. If new observations arise
between the last speech and the current vote, the
agent must re-extract features, reassess the situa-
tion, and update its strategy before proceeding with
voting or similar actions.
4
Experiments
We use two communicative language games, Ad-
versarial Taboo and Undercover, as benchmarks
to evaluate CoMet and other LLM-based base-
lines. In Undercover, communication leans more
towards conceptual descriptions, and the commu-
nication strategy focuses on concealment and en-
crypted conversations. In contrast, in Adversarial
Taboo, communication is more dialogue-oriented,
with the communication strategy emphasizing the
misleading of others. The code can be found at:
https://github.com/Yeswolo/CoMet.
4.1
Experimental Setups
Adversarial Taboo
is a one-on-one competitive
language game where players communicate con-
cepts within linguistic constraints while managing
adversarial interference. The attacker has a secret
word and aims to guide the defender to say it, while
the defender attempts to avoid saying the word and
collects clues to guess it. The defender wins by
correctly guessing the word; if the defender fails,
the attacker wins.
Undercover
is a structured social deduction and
multi-agent language game designed to explore
group dynamics, deception, and semantic reason-
ing. In this game, players are assigned one of two
roles: Civilians, who are given a target word (e.g.,
“Bicycle”), and Undercover Agents, who are as-
signed a semantically related but different word
(e.g., “Motorcycle”). Players must strategically re-
veal hidden roles through rounds of clue-giving,
communication, and voting, while avoiding detec-
tion. At the end of each round, the player with the
most votes is eliminated. If there is a tie, no one
is eliminated, and the game continues. Our setup
includes five agents (three civilians and two under-
cover agents) with a maximum of 10 rounds per
episode. We collected 200 word pairs across two
main themes—food and animals—and each pair is
tested across 10 evaluation episodes. The words
we used are listed in Figures 20 and 21.

--- PAGE 7 ---
Baseline.
The Naive baseline is applying the
LLMs to directly answer the detailed prompts. The
stronger baseline is using Chain-of-Thought (CoT)
(Wei et al., 2022) to build an agent for the two
games. In the Adversarial Taboo game, we evalu-
ate the performance of different LLMs, including
GPT-o1, DeepSeek-R1, Llama3.3-70B, Claude3.5
Sonnet and Qwen2.5-72B, using both CoT and
CoMet. Both methods follow the same game rules
and utilize the same in-game information. Due
to the underperformance of CoT as an undercover
agent, we also introduce an additional baseline by
removing the metaphorical modules (Hypothesis-
Based Metaphor Reasoner and Metaphor Genera-
tor) from CoMet, which we refer to as CoMet w/o
Met. in the experiments. Unless otherwise stated,
GPT-4o is used as the primary LLM in the under-
cover experiments. Please refer to Appendix C for
more implementation details.
Evaluation Metrics.
To quantitatively assess the
agents, we introduce the following metrics based
on the game logs: 1) Win Rate (WR) measures
the agent’s comprehensive performance by calcu-
lating the ratio of games won to the total number of
games played. 2) Feature Extraction Rate (FER)
quantifies the agent’s ability to capture critical fea-
tures by evaluating the ratio of valid features ex-
tracted to the total speech entries received from
other players. 3) Others’ Identity Assessment Ac-
curacy (OIAA) reflects the agent’s capability to
distinguish allies from opponents, defined as the ra-
tio of correct identity judgments to the total number
of other players’ speech entries. 4) Self-Identity
Assessment Accuracy (SIAA) evaluates the agent’s
consistency in maintaining its role, calculated as
the ratio of successful self-identity confirmations
to the total number of attempts to assess its identity.
5) Privacy Protection Capability (PPC) assesses
the agent’s ability to safeguard private information
against adversaries, expressed as subtracting the
ratio of the number of leaked pieces of informa-
tion to the total number of speeches from 1. 6)
Identity Inconsistent Statement Capability (IISC)
measures the agent’s strategic complexity by quan-
tifying the frequency of deceptive or misleading
statements relative to its total speech entries. The
formal definition of these metrics is introduced in
Appendix D.
We observe that agents exhibit role preferences
during the game due to LLM biases, leading to in-
flated metrics for civilians that do not accurately
C o M
e t ( G P T - 4 o )
C o M
e t ( C l a u d e 3 . 5  S o n n e t )
C o m
M
e t ( L l a m
a 3 . 3 - 7 0 B )
C o m
M
e t ( Q w e n 2 . 5 - 7 2 B )
C o T ( C l a u d e 3 . 5  S o n n e t )
C o T ( Q w e n 2 . 5 - 7 2 B )
C o T ( G P T - 4 o )
C o T ( L l a m
a 3 . 3 - 7 0 B )
C o T ( G P T - o 1 )
C o T ( D e e p S e e k - R 1 )
0 . 0
0 . 2
0 . 4
0 . 6
0 . 8
1 . 0
A t t a c k e r  W
i n  R a t e
 D e f e n d e r  W
i n
 D r a w
 A t t a c k e r  W
i n
M
e t h o d ( L L M
)
N a i v e  v s .  N a i v e
N a i v e  v s .  C o T
N a i v e  v s .  C o m
M
e t
C o T  v s .  N a i v e
C o T  v s .  C o T
C o T  v s .  C o M
e t
C o M
e t  v s .  N a i v e
C o M
e t  v s .  C o T
C o M
e t  v s .  C o M
e t
0 . 0
0 . 2
0 . 4
0 . 6
0 . 8
1 . 0
A t t a c k e r  W
i n  R a t e
A t t a c k e r  v s .  D e f e n d e r
 D e f e n d e r  W
i n
 D r a w
 A t t a c k e r  W
i n
(a)
(b
                      
 
  
)
Figure 4: Performance comparison of different LLMs
in Adversarial Taboo. (a) Game result statistics for
Naive Agent, Agent with CoT, and Agent with CoMet.
(b) Performance of LLMs with various methods when
facing an attacker using CoT.
reflect their true performance. Specific examples
of this issue will be discussed in 4.3. To mitigate
the role bias that may arise from using the same
method across different roles, we introduce Bal-
anced Metrics. These are calculated by first averag-
ing the metric values for each method across both
roles, and then subtracting the variance to obtain
the balanced value: M′
i = avg(MCiv
i
, MUnd
i
) −
Var(MCiv
i
, MUnd
i
), Where Mi (i ∈{1, . . . , 6}) rep-
resents the six metrics (e.g., WR, FER, etc.).
4.2
Results on Adversarial Taboo Game
Playing against Baselines.
Figure 4 (a) demon-
strates CoMet’s performance in Adversarial Taboo,
where it achieves significantly higher win rates than
baseline methods both as attackers and defenders,
with attackers’ win rates increasing by 47% and de-
fenders’ win rates increasing by 30% compared to
the baseline. In contrast to Undercover, which re-
quires cooperative covert communication through
metaphors, players in Adversarial Taboo employ
metaphorical conceptual substitution to accomplish
adversarial behaviors like concealment and mis-
guidance. The results show our method’s general-
ization capability across different games.
Generalization of CoMet to Different LLMs.
Figure 4 (b) shows the performance of different
LLMs using CoT and our method CoMet. The
opponent is GPT-4o using CoT. The results demon-
strate that our method generalizes across different
LLMs, with the use of CoMet reducing the failure
rate to below 15% for all tested LLMs. Specifi-
cally, GPT-4o with CoMet exhibited the best per-
formance, achieving the highest win rate of 87%.

--- PAGE 8 ---
















S I A A
F E R
I I S C
P P C
W
R
 C o T
 C o M
e t
O I A A












S I A A
F E R
I I S C
P P C
W
R
 C o T
 C o M
e t
O I A A
( a )  P e r f o r m a n c e  e v a l u a t i o n  a g a i n s t
 C o T  u s i n g  B a l a n c e d  M
e t r i c s .
( b )  P e r f o r m a n c e  e v a l u a t i o n  a g a i n s t  
C o M
e t  u s i n g  B a l a n c e d  M
e t r i c s .
Figure 5: Evaluation of the comprehensive performance
of CoT and CoMet agents in Undercover game using
balanced metrics.
Table 1: Performance comparison of different methods
relative to two baselines in Undercover game, showing
the results when playing two roles (undercover and civil-
ian), where multiple players on the same team use the
same method.
Role (Method)
WR↑
PPC↑
IISC↑
FER↑
SIAA
OIAA
against CoT
Und. (CoT)
0.20
0.30
0
0.65
0.14
0.85
Und. (CoMet)
0.35
0.82
0.41
0.77
0.37
0.74
Civ. (CoT)
0.80
0.23
0
0.61
0.88
0.82
Civ. (CoMet w/o Met.)
0.85
0.68
0.12
0.72
0.67
0.85
Civ. (CoMet)
0.85
0.75
0.16
0.73
0.62
0.76
against CoMet w/o Met.
Und. (CoT)
0.15
0.18
0
0.34
0.04
0.47
Und. (CoMet)
0.45
0.50
0.37
0.48
0.31
0.58
Civ. (CoT)
0.65
0.17
0
0.19
0.92
0.60
Civ. (CoMet w/o Met.)
0.55
0.42
0.23
0.44
0.51
0.64
Civ. (CoMet)
0.70
0.58
0.22
0.53
0.48
0.68
4.3
Results on Undercover Game
Playing against Baselines.
Table 1 compares
different methods based on agents’ roles, evalu-
ating their performance as civilians and undercover
agents against CoT and CoMet w/o Met. In the
experiment, players with the same role adopted the
same method. Agents using CoT often default to as-
suming they are civilians without reasoning, which
means SIAA and OIAA fail to reflect their ability
to reason about their own identities. To address this,
we use Balanced Metrics to mitigate performance
disparities caused by role biases. As shown in Fig-
ure 5 (a) and (b), CoMet outperforms the baseline
across nearly all dimensions. Despite the increased
complexity from covert communication, resulting
in slight decreases in some metrics, CoMet still
achieves the highest win rate, demonstrating its
effectiveness. The higher IISC and PPC scores re-
flect the success of CoMet’s deceptive and covert
communication strategies. Detailed examples and
game logs are available in Appendix E.
Detailed Analysis of the Metaphor Reasoning
& Generation.
Due to the challenges faced by
D U
R
        R
H
        R












S u c c e s s  R a t e
 D U
 R R
 H R
M
e t h o d
w / o  E x p
5 0  E x p
1 0 0  E x p















S u c c e s s  R a t e
 G P T - 4 o
 Q w e n 2 . 5 - 7 2 B
( a )  
 ( b )
Figure 6: Performance comparison of different methods
in metaphorical tasks in Undercover. (a) Effectiveness
of hypothesis-based metaphor reasoning (HR) versus
direct understanding (DU) and replace-based reasoning
(RR). (b) Success rates of metaphor reasoning with vary-
ing numbers of experiences (0, 50, and 100).
LLMs in using metaphors, we employ a hypothesis-
based metaphor reasoner and a metaphor gener-
ator with self-reflection.
The results in Figure
6 (a) and (b) demonstrate the effectiveness of
these modules. Figure 6 (a) compares the per-
formance of hypothesis-based metaphor reason-
ing with other metaphor reasoning methods, di-
rect understanding, and replace-based reasoning
(Tong et al., 2024). The results indicate that our
hypothesis-based method is the most suitable for
agents to employ metaphors effectively. Figure 6
(b) shows the success rate of generated metaphors
that mislead opponents while being recognized by
teammates increases by 29% for GPT-4o and 22%
for Qwen2.5-72B, as they accumulate experience
through self-play.
Ablation Study.
Table 2 reports the ablation
study on CoMet. Experimental results show that
each module contributes to CoMet. We noticed that
after removing the Self Monitor module, CoMet’s
performance was even worse than CoT’s. This
is because after losing the judgment of their own
roles, CoMet, like CoT, always thinks of them-
selves as civilians. Compared to CoT, CoMet has
more radical self-disclosure when identifying them-
selves as civilians, which makes it very difficult for
them to act as undercover agents.
5
Conclusion
This work highlights the importance of metaphor
comprehension and usage in covert communication
and introduces CoMet, a new framework that en-
hances LLM-based agents’ communicative abilities
through metaphor reasoning and generation. By
integrating a hypothesis-based metaphor reasoning
module with a self-improving metaphor generation
module, CoMet enables covert communication in
cooperative settings and effective deception and

--- PAGE 9 ---
Table 2: Ablation Study in Undercover game. The ta-
ble presents the impact of various components on the
performance of CoMet. The columns indicate whether
specific components, including Feature Extractor (FE),
Belief Mapper (BM), Self-Monitor (SM), Strategy Plan-
ner (SP), and Hypothesis-Based Metaphor Reasoner &
Metaphor Generator (Met.). The win rates show the
effect of each component configuration, with the full
CoMet framework achieving the highest win rate.
Method
Met.
FE
BM
SM
SP
Win Rate ↓
CoMet
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
0.70
CoMet w/o Met.
×
✓
✓
✓
✓
0.45
CoMet w/o Met.&FE
×
×
✓
✓
✓
0.40
CoMet w/o Met.&BM
×
✓
×
✓
✓
0.25
CoMet w/o Met.&SP
×
✓
✓
✓
×
0.25
CoMet w/o Met.&SM
×
✓
✓
×
✓
0.05
concealment in adversarial environments. Com-
prehensive evaluations on two language games,
Undercover and Adversarial Taboo, demonstrate
CoMet’s ability to leverage metaphors, ensuring ro-
bustness and generalization across different LLMs
and scenarios. Moving forward, we aim to refine
the framework, extend metaphorical adaptability
to diverse game contexts, and explore the practi-
cal applications of metaphor-driven LLM agents in
real-world problems.
Limitations
This study primarily focuses on the metaphor mech-
anism in language-based communication games,
particularly those that involve parsing specific con-
cepts. However, extending metaphor strategies to
more complex games, such as diplomacy or em-
bodied multi-modal multi-agent games, presents an
area for further research. While the self-enhancing
metaphor generation module proposed in this study
has improved the quality of metaphor generation,
the simplified theoretical framework and knowl-
edge base may limit the potential for more sophis-
ticated metaphor expression. The cognitive effec-
tiveness of metaphors is closely tied to an agent’s
knowledge depth and cultural context, which this
study does not fully explore. Specifically, the trans-
fer of idiomatic metaphors, such as those in Chi-
nese, remains a topic for future research.
Ethical Statement
This study was conducted in compliance with all
relevant ethical guidelines and did not involve any
procedures requiring ethical approval.
Enhancing the metaphorical capabilities of
LLMs may pose certain risks, such as enabling
these models to bypass their safety mechanisms
and generate non-compliant content. However, it is
important to emphasize that although our method
produces metaphorical expressions in output, the
agent still processes the original semantic informa-
tion during its reasoning. These original semantics
are strictly constrained by the alignment of LLMs
to filter out harmful descriptions and risky content.
Thus, it is infeasible to use our method to make
LLMs output risky content. Moreover, the exper-
imental content of this study is strictly confined
to language game scenarios constructed with daily
vocabulary, aiming to explore the boundaries of
the agent’s capabilities while avoiding malicious
exploitation of the method. Thus, there are no unre-
solved ethical risks in this study. Of course, we still
call on the academic community to remain vigilant
about potential emergent behaviors and strengthen
safety mechanisms when extending such frame-
works to practical applications.
Regarding the word datasets used in our exper-
iments, all data were independently collected and
curated by the research team. The datasets under-
went rigorous validation processes to ensure quality
and reliability. We confirm that the data collection
adhered to all applicable ethical standards, includ-
ing participant privacy protection, data anonymiza-
tion, and obtaining informed consent from all par-
ticipants. We affirm that the data are solely for
research purposes and will not be used for commer-
cial or unauthorized applications.
References
H. Al-Azary. 2019.
Metaphor wars:
Conceptual
metaphors in human life: by r. gibbs, jr. Metaphor
and Symbol, 34(4):262–264.
Marcellus Amadeus, José Roberto Homeli da Silva, and
Joao Victor Pessoa Rocha. 2024. Bridging the lan-
guage gap: Integrating language variations into con-
versational ai agents for enhanced user engagement.
In Proceedings of the 1st Worskhop on Towards Eth-
ical and Inclusive Conversational AI: Language At-
titudes, Linguistic Diversity, and Language Rights
(TEICAI 2024), pages 16–20.
Kotaro Aono, Ryohei Sasano, and Koichi Takeda. 2024.
Verifying claims about metaphors with large-scale
automatic metaphor identification. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2404.01029.
Howard Chen, Ramakanth Pasunuru, Jason Weston, and
Asli Celikyilmaz. 2023. Walking down the mem-
ory maze: Beyond context limit through interactive
reading. ArXiv Preprint ArXiv:2310.05029.

--- PAGE 10 ---
Pengyu Cheng, Tianhao Hu, Han Xu, Zhisong Zhang,
Yong Dai, Lei Han, and Nan Du. 2024. Self-playing
adversarial language game enhances llm reasoning.
ArXiv Preprint ArXiv:2404.10642.
Ingrid Lossius Falkum and Franziska Köder. 2020. The
acquisition of figurative meanings. Journal of Prag-
matics, 164:18–24.
P. Group. 2007.
Mip:
A method for identifying
metaphorically used words in discourse. Metaphor
and Symbol, 22(1):1–39.
Zhenyu Guan, Xiangyu Kong, Fangwei Zhong, and
Yizhou Wang. 2024. Richelieu: Self-evolving LLM-
based agents for AI diplomacy. In The Thirty-eighth
Annual Conference on Neural Information Process-
ing Systems, volume 37, pages 123471–123497.
Taicheng Guo, Xiuying Chen, Yaqi Wang, Ruidi Chang,
Shichao Pei, Nitesh V. Chawla, Olaf Wiest, and Xi-
angliang Zhang. 2024. Large language model based
multi-agents: A survey of progress and challenges.
ArXiv Preprint ArXiv:2402.01680.
Kaidi Jia and Rongsheng Li. 2024. Metaphor detection
with context enhancement and curriculum learning.
In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference of the North
American Chapter of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics: Human Language Technologies
(Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 2726–2737.
Jeongyeon Kim, Sangho Suh, Lydia B Chilton, and
Haijun Xia. 2023. Metaphorian: Leveraging large
language models to support extended metaphor cre-
ation for science writing.
In Proceedings of the
2023 ACM Designing Interactive Systems Confer-
ence, pages 115–135, New York, NY, USA. ACM.
George Lakoff and Mark Johnson. 2008. Metaphors we
live by. University of Chicago Press.
John M Lawler. 1983. Metaphors we live by.
Xinzhe Li. 2025. A review of prominent paradigms for
llm-based agents: Tool use, planning (including rag),
and feedback learning. In Proceedings of the 31st
International Conference on Computational Linguis-
tics, pages 9760–9779.
Yucheng Li,
Shun Wang,
Chenghua Lin,
and
Guerin Frank. 2023.
Metaphor detection via ex-
plicit basic meanings modelling.
ArXiv Preprint
ArXiv:2305.17268.
Jonathan Light, Min Cai, Weiqin Chen, Guanzhi Wang,
Xiusi Chen, Wei Cheng, Yisong Yue, and Ziniu
Hu. 2024.
Strategist:
Learning strategic skills
by llms via bi-level tree search.
ArXiv Preprint
ArXiv:2408.10635.
Jonathan Light, Min Cai, Sheng Shen, and Ziniu Hu.
2023. Avalonbench: Evaluating llms playing the
game of avalon. In Proceedings of the 2023 Con-
ference on Game-based AI. Details about the exact
conference are missing.
Yujie Lin, Jingyao Liu, Yan Gao, Ante Wang, and Jin-
song Su. 2024. A dual-perspective metaphor detec-
tion framework using large language models. ArXiv
Preprint ArXiv:2412.17332.
Emmy Liu, Chenxuan Cui, Kenneth Zheng, and Gra-
ham Neubig. 2022. Testing the ability of language
models to interpret figurative language.
ArXiv,
abs/2204.12632.
Rui Mao, Kai He, Claudia Ong, Qian Liu, and Erik Cam-
bria. 2024. Metapro 2.0: Computational metaphor
processing on the effectiveness of anomalous lan-
guage modeling. In Findings of the Association for
Computational Linguistics ACL 2024, pages 9891–
9908.
Gabriel Mukobi, Hannah Erlebach, Niklas Lauffer,
Lewis Hammond, Alan Chan, and Jesse Clifton. 2023.
Welfare diplomacy: Benchmarking language model
cooperation. ArXiv Preprint ArXiv:2310.08901.
Sebastian Reimann and Tatjana Scheffler. 2024.
Metaphors in online religious communication: A
detailed dataset and cross-genre metaphor detection.
In Proceedings of the 2024 Joint International Con-
ference on Computational Linguistics, Language
Resources and Evaluation (LREC-COLING 2024),
pages 11236–11246.
Noah Shinn, Beck Labash, and Ashwin Gopinath.
2023.
Reflexion: an autonomous agent with dy-
namic memory and self-reflection. ArXiv Preprint
ArXiv:2303.11366.
Ekaterina Shutova. 2010. Models of metaphor in nlp. In
Proceedings of the 48th Annual Meeting of the Associ-
ation for Computational Linguistics, pages 688–697.
Paul H. Thibodeau, Teenie Matlock, and Stephen J. Flus-
berg. 2019. The role of metaphor in communication
and thought. Language and Linguistics Compass,
13(5):e12327.
Yuan Tian, Nan Xu, and Wenji Mao. 2024. A theory
guided scaffolding instruction framework for llm-
enabled metaphor reasoning. In Proceedings of the
2024 Conference of the North American Chapter of
the Association for Computational Linguistics: Hu-
man Language Technologies, pages 7738–7755, Mex-
ico City, Mexico. Association for Computational Lin-
guistics.
Xiaoyu Tong, Rochelle Choenni, Martha Lewis, and
Ekaterina Shutova. 2024.
Metaphor understand-
ing challenge dataset for llms.
ArXiv Preprint
ArXiv:2403.11810.
Tony Veale, Ekaterina Shutova, and Beata Beigman
Klebanov. 2022. Metaphor: A computational per-
spective. Springer Nature.
Shenzhi Wang, Chang Liu, Zilong Zheng, Siyuan Qi,
Shuo Chen, Qisen Yang, Andrew Zhao, Chaofei
Wang, Shiji Song, and Gao Huang. 2024. Boost-
ing LLM agents with recursive contemplation for

--- PAGE 11 ---
effective deception handling. In Findings of the As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2024,
pages 9909–9953, Bangkok, Thailand. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten
Bosma, brian ichter, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc V Le,
and Denny Zhou. 2022. Chain-of-thought prompt-
ing elicits reasoning in large language models. In
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
volume 35, pages 24824–24837. Curran Associates,
Inc.
Lin Xu, Zhiyuan Hu, Daquan Zhou, Hongyu Ren, Zhen
Dong, Kurt Keutzer, See Kiong Ng, and Jiashi Feng.
2024. Magic: Investigation of large language model
powered multi-agent in cognition, adaptability, ra-
tionality and collaboration. In Proceedings of the
2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing, pages 7315–7332.
Zelai Xu, Chao Yu, Fei Fang, Yu Wang, and Yi Wu.
2023. Language agents with reinforcement learn-
ing for strategic play in the werewolf game. ArXiv
Preprint ArXiv:2310.18940.
Shunyu Yao, Dian Yu, Jeffrey Zhao, Izhak Shafran,
Tom Griffiths, Yuan Cao, and Karthik Narasimhan.
2023. Tree of thoughts: Deliberate problem solving
with large language models. In Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, volume 36, pages
11809–11822. Curran Associates, Inc.
Yuan Yao, Haoxi Zhong, Zhengyan Zhang, Xu Han,
Xiaozhi Wang, Kai Zhang, Chaojun Xiao, Guoyang
Zeng, Zhiyuan Liu, and Maosong Sun. 2021. Adver-
sarial language games for advanced natural language
intelligence. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference
on Artificial Intelligence, volume 35, pages 14248–
14256.
Luyao Yuan, Zipeng Fu, Jingyue Shen, Lu Xu, Junhong
Shen, and Song-Chun Zhu. 2020. Emergence of
pragmatics from referential game between theory of
mind agents. ArXiv Preprint ArXiv:2001.07752.
Xufeng Zhao, Mengdi Li, Wenhao Lu, Cornelius Weber,
Jae Hee Lee, Kun Chu, and Stefan Wermter. 2023.
Enhancing zero-shot chain-of-thought reasoning in
large language models through logic. ArXiv Preprint
ArXiv:2309.13339.

--- PAGE 12 ---
Appendix
A
Discussion
A.1
Implications
This study has experimentally demonstrated the
effectiveness and strategic superiority of us-
ing metaphors for covert communication in
communication-based games. The results show
that metaphors can help players convey critical in-
formation without revealing their identities, thereby
enhancing team collaboration efficiency and win
rates. This mode of communication not only per-
forms well in-game scenarios but also offers a new
perspective for the study of covert communica-
tion. From a theoretical standpoint, metaphors,
as a mode of expression, can transform abstract
information into forms that are easier to understand
and convey, and also complicate and obscure spe-
cific information. This characteristic endows them
with unique advantages in complex communication
behaviors. The use of metaphors also reflects the
interdisciplinary integration values. For instance,
in the fields of linguistics, cognitive science, and
psychology, metaphors are regarded as an impor-
tant tool for cognition and communication. The
findings of this study are not confined to the realm
of multi-agent language games; their potential ap-
plications extend to broader social and professional
contexts. In an era of increasing risks of informa-
tion leakage (such as the protection of trade secrets
and personal privacy), metaphors can serve as a nat-
ural language version of “asymmetric encryption.”
In social interactions, the use of metaphors can also
function as a new paradigm for group communica-
tion, acting as a “weak identity verification” tool
in groups lacking prior trust (such as multinational
teams and temporary organizations). More com-
monly and importantly, the use of metaphors is not
rare for humans, as it is a part of our daily language
expression. Enhancing the understanding and use
of metaphors can help us make greater progress in
aligning AI with human intentions, enabling AI to
more fully and comprehensively understand human
language expression.
A.2
Future works
The effectiveness and strategic superiority of us-
ing metaphors for covert communication have been
proven in our experiments, aiding the civilian team
in better mutual recognition in Undercover. How-
ever, the initial inspiration for using metaphors in
our study did not come from Undercover. Instead,
inspired by (Wang et al., 2024; Xu et al., 2023),
we conducted a more in-depth analysis on bench-
marks like Avalon and Werewolf, drawing on the
performance of human players in these games. We
envisioned scenarios where covert communication
through metaphors could be utilized— for example,
in Werewolf, the werewolf team needs to identify
and kill the Seer. Therefore, the Seer must conceal
their identity. However, the additional information
that the Seer gains each turn is also crucial for the
good team’s victory. Thus, if the Seer can secretly
convey this extra information to other good play-
ers without revealing their own identity, it would
significantly increase the good team’s win rate. In
fact, human players have already mastered similar
behaviors. For example, the Seer might replace
a direct statement like “Player x is a werewolf”
with a metaphor such as “Player x has dark circles
under their eyes. Did they not sleep well?” This
metaphorically indicates that Player x was active
during the previous night phase. If other good play-
ers who do not need to hide their identities can
understand this information, they can then organize
the good team to attack Player x collectively. Of
course, establishing trust among the good players is
also one of the challenges. We believe that a key to
covert communication lies in the information gap.
Only by relying on information that is known to
both parties but unknown to others can metaphors
be created that are understood by the two parties
but not by others, thus enabling secret information
exchange and achieving more advanced strategies
in communication-based games.
B
Game Rules
Undercover
In this game, players are divided
into two teams. Two different but similar words
are secretly assigned to the two teams. Each team
shares the same word, which is known only to the
players on that team. At the start of the game,
players are only given their team’s secret word,
with no additional information. Each round, all
surviving players take turns to speak and briefly
describe their team’s word without directly reveal-
ing it. After the descriptions, all players vote to
eliminate the player who received the most votes.
If all the undercovers are eliminated, the civilians
win; if the undercovers survive until only one civil-
ian remains, the undercovers win. Players need
to analyze other players’ descriptions and voting

--- PAGE 13 ---
Algorithm 1 Hypothesis-based metaphor reasoning
Require: Metaphor sentence S
Require: Secret word W
Require: score threshold T
Require: position-based weight factors wf and wm
1: Establish hypotheses:
2: H+ ←The speaker is describing one specific entity
3: H−←The speaker is describing another entity
4: Feature extraction:
5: Extract the feature set F from the secret word W:
F = Γ(F|W), where F = {fbehavior, fstate, fstructure, ffunction, fproperty}
6: Metaphor expansion:
7: Identify the set M of metaphorical aspects from the metaphor sentence S:
M = Λ(M|S), where M = {montological, mstructural, mspatial}
8: Hypothesis testing decision:
9: The semantic matching function δ : F ×M ×S →{0, 0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8, 1.0} evaluates the coherence
between features and metaphorical aspects using six discrete scores.
10: Initialize s∗= 0
11: for each f ∈F do
12:
for each m ∈M do
13:
s = δ(f, m, S)
14:
sw = wf × wm × score
15:
if sw > s∗then
16:
s∗= sw
17:
end if
18:
end for
19: end for
20: if s∗> T then
21:
Accept H+
22: else
23:
Accept H−
24: end if
behavior each round, attempt to identify whether
they belong to the civilian or undercover team, and
then devise corresponding strategies and actions to
achieve victory in the game.
Adversarial Taboo
Adversarial Taboo is a con-
versation game between two players: an attacker
and a defender. At the start, the attacker is secretly
given a target word that the defender does not know.
The attacker’s task is to steer the conversation to-
ward topics related to the target word without ever
saying it directly. Meanwhile, the defender tries
to figure out the target word but must avoid acci-
dentally saying it. If the defender thinks they know
the word, they can guess by stating, “Guess:[word]”
The game ends immediately after this guess: the de-
fender wins if correct, otherwise the attacker wins.
The game also has a turn limit — if no correct
guess occurs within the allowed number of turns,
the game ends with no winner.
Regarding the rule setting of Adversarial Taboo,
we require both sides to engage in dialogue, guid-
ance, and guessing, while also imposing several
restrictions on them. For the attacker, it is not al-
lowed to intentionally and clearly guide the wrong
words so that the defender can directly make incor-
rect guesses. Defenders cannot avoid discussing
the topic with the attacker and ask the attacker for
clues instead. The entire game process is built on

--- PAGE 14 ---
honest question-and-answer dialogue, which gives
the game a certain level of fairness and competi-
tiveness.
C
Implementation Details
About the games When humans play Under-
cover, the number of undercover agents is gen-
erally smaller because humans can naturally and
quickly understand their situation by playing as
undercover agents. During the experiment, we set
up 2 undercover agents and 3 civilians. Under this
setting, The win rates of both sides were some-
what balanced, yet civilians still held an advantage.
In further research, if undercover abilities can be
improved, the game settings can also reduce the
number of undercover agents.
The choice of words in both games can to some
extent determine the difficulty of the characters’
victory. In Adversarial Taboo, we refer to (Cheng
et al., 2024) and conduct experiments using some
of the most commonly used words in daily life.
For Undercover, we have included filtered words
in the publicly available script to avoid one-sided
victories and taboo topics that may be triggered by
large models. However, there are still differences
between words. After conducting comparative ex-
periments, we found that words that are more mun-
dane and specific are the most suitable for use in
the spy game. Therefore, we set up a preliminary
experiment that required the LLM to describe these
words multiple times in terms of their features, to
ensure their similarity and describability. After
extensive experiments, we screened out 100 pairs
of animal-themed words and 100 pairs of food-
themed words, and then randomly selected from
them for the experiment to eliminate the influence
of the words on our assessment of the intelligent
agent’s capabilities.
Pseudocode of Hypothesis-based Metaphor
Reasoning In Algorithm 1, we present the pseu-
docode of Hypothesis-based Metaphor Reasoning
in Undercover.
Here, S represents the metaphor sentence pro-
vided by a player, and W refers to the secret word
that the reasoner has. The score threshold T de-
termines the minimum semantic matching score
required to determine if the metaphor relates to the
secret word. The weight factors wf and wm are
position-based coefficients that give higher prior-
ity to features and metaphorical aspects that the
agent identifies first, allowing the most salient char-
acteristics to have greater influence on the final
decision. The feature set F consists of various
characteristic dimensions of the secret word (be-
havior, state, structure, function, and property) ex-
tracted by function Γ, while the set M contains
different metaphorical aspects (ontological, struc-
tural, and spatial) identified by function Λ from
the sentence. The semantic matching function δ
evaluates how coherently each feature maps to each
metaphorical aspect, producing a score that guides
the algorithm’s final decision.
Experience Pool Structure and Maintenance
The experience pool for metaphor generation is
structured as a dictionary format collection, con-
taining text content, labels, and performance statis-
tics. Each experience entry contains:Text content:
The original metaphor, the generator’s explanation,
and feedback from the evaluator. Labels: Indica-
tors for positive/negative examples and categoriza-
tion by metaphor type. Statistics: Records of usage
frequency, success rate, and overall performance
score.
Figure 7 is an example of a stored experience.
We initialize the experience pool with 20 man-
ually curated examples to bootstrap the learning
process. During gameplay, the system continuously
evolves through: Dynamic retrieval: Selecting rel-
evant experiences based on scores and metaphor
categories; Continuous recording: Capturing new
metaphors and player reactions, randomly select
one or more players as responders as needed in mul-
tiplayer games; Automated evaluation: An LLM-
based evaluator analyzes metaphor effectiveness
and provides guidance; Capacity management:
Maximum capacity of 100 experiences per cate-
gory, with new high-quality experiences replacing
low-scoring ones; Regular pruning: After every 5
games, experiences referenced more than 5 times
with scores below threshold are removed.
This dynamic maintenance mechanism opti-
mizes metaphor generation and reasoning capabil-
ities over time, allowing the system to refine its
performance through actual gameplay interactions.
Metaphor reasoning with prior knowledge
Compared to common metaphor reasoning meth-
ods, hypothesis-based metaphor reasoning utilizes
different prior knowledge. For example, in Un-
dercover, players reason based on their own se-
cret words. This information gap is precisely the
key to achieving “covert communication”. On the
one hand, hypothesis-based metaphor reasoning
narrows the scope of possible interpretations by

--- PAGE 15 ---
{
"id": "20250121113613228971",
"words": ["snake", "lizard"],
"use": 0,
"method": "ONTOLOGICAL_METAPHOR",
"rival_recognitions": 1,
"teammate_recognitions": 7,
"total_references": 12,
"score": 0.5,
"metaphor": "They are silent dancers.",
"explain": "The metaphor \"silent dancers\" captures the way
snakes move silently and gracefully, akin to the
fluid movements of a dancer.",
"comment": 1. Leverage Distinctive Characteristics: Highlight
a few unique, easily recognizable traits of the subject.
2. Clarity and Simplicity: Use clear and simple metaphoric
language to invoke strong imagery.
3. Cultural and Contextual Awareness: Consider cultural
associations and contexts to strengthen metaphors.
}
Figure 7: An example demonstrating the structure of data stored in the experience pool.
following a forward reasoning path from literal to
metaphorical meaning, leveraging prior knowledge
to reduce the breadth of metaphor reasoning. For in-
stance, during wartime, if you know someone is an
intelligence agent, their metaphorical expressions
are more likely to reference weapons, strategies, or
military forces rather than emotions or everyday
objects. This contextual awareness significantly
constrains the possible interpretation space. On
the other hand, the strategic use of information gap
in prior knowledge is fundamental to generating
and reasoning about metaphors for covert commu-
nication. In games like Undercover, players’ secret
words are intimately connected to both metaphor
generation and interpretation, with different teams
possessing different secret words—creating a nat-
ural information gap that enables covert commu-
nication. When addressing more complex scenar-
ios, particularly those involving metaphors about
intentions or thoughts, establishing shared prior
knowledge between agents that differs from eaves-
droppers becomes critical. The challenge of how
agents can develop consensus through prior knowl-
edge, thereby possessing information unavailable
to potential interceptors, represents one of the key
mechanisms for achieving effective covert commu-
nication.
The use of LLMs Large models deployed
locally:
Qwen2.5-72B-instruct, Llama3.3-70B-
Instruct; The large model that calls the official API:
GPT-o1-preview-2024-09-12, GPT-4o-2024-11-20,
Claude 3.5 Sonnet, DeepSeek-R1. We have also
tried other smaller-scale models, such as Llama3.1-
8B and DeepSeek-llm-7B-chat. However, due to
the inability to match game requirements such as
output format, further experiments were not con-
ducted.
Regarding the parameters of the large model, in
most cases, we set the temperature between 0.5-0.7,
but when performing generation-related tasks, we
may increase them appropriately to pursue higher
creativity. Other parameters remain default.
To enable the LLM to participate as an agent in
the language game, we need to use system prompts
to emphasize the LLM’s role as a player within
the game. We divide the user prompt into three
parts: Background, which includes detailed expla-
nations of the game rules and victory conditions for
different roles; Task, which requires the LLM to
gradually complete corresponding sub-goals based
on the stages of the framework; and Information,
which contains the player’s private information and
publicly accumulated information throughout the
game.
Metaphor Theory We used widely recognized
metaphor theory (Lawler, 1983) as knowledge in-

--- PAGE 16 ---
jection and metaphor classification. In this theory,
metaphors are categorized into three types: onto-
logical metaphors, structural metaphors, and spatial
metaphors. After accumulating nearly 200 expe-
riences, we conducted a statistical analysis of the
results in the experience pool, as shown in Table 3.
For the use of metaphors in the specific scenario
of Undercover, the agent (GPT-4o) performs best
in ontological metaphors, which are used most fre-
quently and have the highest average score among
the three categories. In contrast, spatial metaphors
have the lowest total number and average score.
This phenomenon is reasonable because ontologi-
cal metaphors involve the conceptualization of ob-
jects or entities, which are more compatible with
Undercover. However, the overall score is low,
which means we can further work on metaphor
classification and design metaphor theories that are
more suitable for their use in LLM.
Category
Count (Proportion)
Average Score
Onto. Metaphor
96 (47%)
0.44
Stru. Metaphor
71 (35%)
0.27
Spat. Metaphor
36 (18%)
0.22
Table 3: Distribution and average scores by metaphor
category of experiences generated in Undercover.
D
Evaluation Metrics
The formal definition of each evaluation metric is
listed in Table 4.
E
Cases
CoMet w/o Met.
as undercovers
Figure 10
shows a specific case. This is a five-player Un-
dercover game where two players are assigned to
“butterfly” and three players are assigned to “bee”.
Therefore, the two players in the butterfly group
are undercover agents.
At the beginning of the game, players in the
butterfly group adopted a self-protection strategy,
choosing to use a wide range of characteristics to
describe the butterfly when speaking for the first
time, in order to reduce the exposure of their own
information. As a control group, the bee group
showed that the CoT method did not reduce the
exposure of their own information in the game,
which led to the undercover agent guessing their
word - bee - in the later stage, thus implementing
a misdirection strategy and successfully winning
the game. This case can well demonstrate that
after using our method, agents can master richer
communication strategies.
Figure 8 selects the key nodes in the complete
log that reflect their self-protection and misdirec-
tion behaviors and provide specific explanations.
CoMet as civilians
Figure 9 shows our method
of playing the role of a civilian. After obtaining suf-
ficient information in the later stages of the game
and identifying as a civilian, we chose to use an
active feature disclosure strategy to help our team-
mates successfully identify ourselves, and success-
fully conceal the information of “howling”. This
led us to make a wrong judgment based on the lim-
ited information about “animals with social behav-
ior” - thinking that the civilian’s word was a lion,
which resulted in their speech aligning with the
lion, making it easy for the remaining two civilians
to identify the last undercover agent and achieve
the final victory.
F
Prompts for Each Module in CoMet
We have presented prompt templates for various
modules of CoMet. In practical use, it is also pos-
sible to summarize or extract content based on dif-
ferent settings of the modules in addition to these
steps. We also demonstrated a simplified version of
Adversarial Taboo using CoMet, as there are only
two players in this game, separating each module
for input and output would result in some resource
waste. Of course, that is also feasible.
G
Ai Assistants In Writing
During the writing process, we utilized ChatGPT
for grammatical correction and language polish-
ing to improve readability and linguistic accuracy.
However, we explicitly state that the core content,
logical flow, and substantive components of the
paper were entirely human-authored without gen-
erative contributions from LLMs.

--- PAGE 17 ---
Table 4: Evaluation Metrics for Agent Performance
Metric
Formula
Symbol Definitions
Win Rate (WR)
Nwin
Ntotal
Nwin: Number of games won
Ntotal: Total games played
Feature Extraction Rate (FER)
Fextracted
Sothers
Fextracted: Valid features extracted
Sothers: Speech entries from other players
Others’ Identity Assessment Accuracy (OIAA)
Mcorrect
Sothers
Mcorrect: Correct identity judgments
Sothers: Total speech entries from others
Self-Identity Assessment Accuracy (SIAA)
Icorrect
Itotal
Icorrect: Successful self-identity confirmations
Itotal: Total self-identity attempts
Privacy Protection Capability (PPC)
1 −Lopponents
Sself
Lopponents: Leaked information to opponents
Sself: Total speeches made by the agent
Identity Inconsistent Statement Capability (IISC)
ISself
Sself
ISself: Inconsistent/misleading statements
Sself: Total speeches made by the agent
It is a creature.
Round 1
It makes a buzzing sound.
It can sting.
It can produce something sweet.
It has wings.
Round 3
It has a stinger.
It has a small size.
It can communicate through dances.
It has a queen.
At the beginning of the game, due to the uncertainty of their identity,
players in the Butterfly group adopt a more cautious self-protection
strategy, starting with some broad features to describe their words
without revealing too specific information.
In contrast, the bee group identified some significant characteristics of
bees in the first round, such as the ability to sting people and produce
honey.
These features can prove their bee identity, but this will also expose the
key information of bees to the players of the butterfly group.
ELIMINATED
As the game progressed, player 5 collected more and more
information. In the third round, player 5 had already identified its
undercover identity based on the opinions and voting tendencies of
other players, and guessed that the citizen's word was "bee".
So, Player 5 began to adopt a deceptive strategy, no longer describing
their own word butterfly, but starting to describe the detailed
characteristics of bees. the description of "Queen" was more specific
compared to the bee group's "small size", which led other bee group
players to mistakenly believe that the latter was the undercover player.
Figure 8: A case and explanation for undercovers’ self-protection and deception. Team with “Butterfly” uses CoMet
w/o Met. and team with “Bee” uses CoT.
In the realm of silent echoes, the
unseen council navigates the wilderness
Round 4
It is known for its strength.
It is a solitary hunter.
ELIMINATED
ELIMINATED
"Based on the current information and analysis, let's summarize the features and make a guess for
the other word:
### Features of the Other Word:
1. **Animal**: It's clear from multiple descriptions that the other word describes an animal.
2. **Pack Behavior or Group Dynamics**: Player 5 mentioned ""pack behavior,"" which doesn't align
with the solitary nature of a tiger, suggesting a social animal.
3. **Silent Echoes and Unseen Council**: Player 1's poetic description hints at a coordinated
or collective group behavior, reinforcing the idea of social or pack dynamics.
### Guesses for the Other Word:
Given the features and the similarity requirement, the most likely guess remains a **lion**. Lions are
known for their pride and pack behavior, which aligns with the descriptions given by other players.
### Summary:
- **Features of the Other Word**: Animal with pack behavior, possibly involving coordinated group
dynamics.
- **Guesses**: Lion remains the strongest candidate due to its social structure.
"
1. **Identifying Metaphors:**
- The phrase ""In the realm of silent echoes, the unseen council navigates the wilderness"" is likely a
metaphor. It uses poetic language that isn't directly descriptive of a physical characteristic.
2. **Understanding the Metaphor:**
- Now, let's compare this metaphor to the features of ""wolf"" and the guessed word ""tiger.""
- ""Silent echoes"" may imply the howl of wolves, and ""unseen council"" could imply stealth and a
coordinated group, which aligns with the behavior of wolves. "
- The metaphor does not seem to align with the solitary nature of a tiger.
3. **Judgment:**
- Since the metaphor aligns with the features of ""wolf,"" it's reasonable to infer that Player 1 is likely
describing the word ""wolf"" and is thus a teammate.
Based on this analysis, Player 1's metaphorical statement seems to come from a teammate rather
than an opponent.""
Figure 9: A case of civilians’ metaphorical communication. The team with “Wolf” uses CoMet and the team with
“Tiger” uses CoMet w/o Met..

--- PAGE 18 ---
round,word,player_id,action,details
,,host,,**speak phase!**
1,bee,4,speak,It can produce something sweet.
1,butterfly,5,speak,It has wings.
1,butterfly,1,speak,It can fly.
1,bee,3,speak,It can sting.
1,bee,2,speak,It makes a buzzing sound.
,,host,,**vote phase!**
1,butterfly,1,vote,2
1,bee,2,vote,5
1,bee,3,vote,5
1,bee,4,vote,1
1,butterfly,5,vote,2
1,,host,,**Flat ticket, no player eliminated.**
,,host,,**speak phase!**
2,bee,2,speak,It collects nectar from flowers.
2,butterfly,5,speak,It helps in pollination.
2,bee,4,speak,It lives in a hive.
2,butterfly,1,speak,It has antennas.
2,bee,3,speak,It has a striped body.
,,host,,**vote phase!**
2,butterfly,1,vote,4
2,bee,2,vote,1
2,bee,3,vote,1
2,bee,4,vote,1
2,butterfly,5,vote,2
2,,host,,**The player 1 was eliminated!**
2,,host,,"**Still alive players: 2, 3, 4, 5**"
,,host,,**speak phase!**
3,butterfly,5,speak,It has a queen.
3,bee,4,speak,It can communicate through dances.
3,bee,3,speak,It has a small size.
3,bee,2,speak,It has a stinger.
,,host,,**vote phase!**
3,bee,2,vote,3
3,bee,3,vote,2
3,bee,4,vote,3
3,butterfly,5,vote,3
3,,host,,**The player 3 was eliminated!**
3,,host,,"**Still alive players: 2, 4, 5**"
,,host,,**speak phase!**
4,bee,4,speak,It has compound eyes.
4,bee,2,speak,It is often found near flowers.
4,butterfly,5,speak,It can be found in a colony.
,,host,,**vote phase!**
4,bee,2,vote,1
4,bee,4,vote,2
4,butterfly,5,vote,2
4,,host,,**The player 2 was eliminated!**
4,,host,,"**Still alive players: 4, 5**"
,,host,,**Undercovers win!**
Figure 10: Full game logs of the case mentioned by Figure 8

--- PAGE 19 ---
# Background
    At the beginning of the game, each player is randomly assigned one of two words.The two words share some similarities. Players are divided
into two teams based on their assigned words: the majority team and the minority team. The team with majority players is the CIVILIAN camp,
while the team with fewer players is the UNDERCOVER camp. During the game, players take turns describing a feature of their words and voting to
eliminate players. The team that eliminates all members of the opposing team wins. In this game, there are {cnum + unum} players in total.
{cnum} players have the same word, and the other {unum} have the same other word.
   
# Task
    Now your task is to extract information from other people's descriptions, 
    Summarize the characteristics of the other word, and try to guess the word after having enough characteristics.
    Please follow the steps in order:
        1. Check if other players' description aligns with your word. Find those descriptions that not match your word, then they should be
describing the other word.
        2. Analyze those suspicious descriptions, extract and summarize the unique features of the other word.
        - These features should not fit your word, but rather fit only the other word. They are the key information you use to identify the other
word.
        3. Generate or adjust your guess for the other word:
        - The guess should be based on two pieces of information: one is the features you just summarized, and the other is the basic principle that
the other word is similar to or related to your word.
        - If it is the first time generating a guess, you should generate multiple words or a range of guesses, unless some players have already made
descriptions that provide enough clear information.
        - If it is not the first guess, you should narrow down the range of guesses using the new information or adjust the guess when errors are
detected. Once enough clear information is obtained, lock in on a single word.        4. summary the features of the other word and your guesses
about the other word.
    
# Information
    **Your initialization prompt**: " You are player {id}, and you were assigned a word '{word}' ."
    **Your analysis of another word's features** \n"{feature}"\n
    **history of other players' statements**   "{dialogue_history}"
    \n\n
Figure 11: The prompt for Feature Extractor
  # Background
  At the beginning of the game, each player is randomly assigned one of two words that share some similarities. Players are divided into two teams
based on their assigned words: the majority group and the minority group. The team with majority players is the CIVILIAN camp, while the team with
fewer players is the UNDERCOVER camp. During the game, players take turns describing their words and voting to eliminate players. The team that
eliminates all members of the opposing team wins.In this game, there are {cnum + unum} players in total. {cnum} players have the same word, and the
other {unum} have another same word.
  # Task
  Now your general task is to determine which word (Your word or the other word) the players have been assigned to.
  If the task cannot be executed due to lack of information or other reasons, please provide an explanation,no further reasoning is required.
  Finish the task by follow these steps in order:
  1. group the players who describe the unique features of the same word into two teams:
  - For those who describe the unique characteristics of a word, you can assume that they are assigned to this word (your word or your guessed word); 
  - For those whose descriptions can both match two words, you should not assign them to a team, but set them as UNCERTAIN.
  - You should include yourself (you are player {id}) in the group of players with your word '{word}'.
  Sample:"Player with 'Word A': ...; Player with 'Word B': ...; Uncertain: ..."
  2. try to refer to the voting results to determine the uncertain players and assign them to a team:
  - if his voting object is always Team A, then he may belong to Team B
  - If his voting result is same with many players, then he may belong th the team with those players.
  # Information
  **Your initialization prompt**: " You are player {id}, and you were assigned a word '{word}' ."
  - Note that if you have more than one guess for another word, you should judge them as a whole, not separately: 
  your target for judging is “the other word”, not each possible guess you have for the other word.\n
  
  **history of other players' statements** \n"{dialogue_history}"\n
Figure 12: The prompt for Belief Mapper

--- PAGE 20 ---
# Background
    At the beginning of the game, each player is randomly assigned one of two words that share some similarities.  Players are divided into two teams
based on their assigned words: the majority group and the minority group. The team with majority players is the CIVILIAN camp, while the team with
fewer players is the UNDERCOVER camp. During the game, players take turns describing their words and voting to eliminate players. The team that
eliminates all members of the opposing team wins.In this game, there are {cnum + unum} players in total. {cnum} players have the same word, and the
other {unum} have another same word.
    
# Task
    Now your general task is to determine which camps (MAJORITY or MINORITY) you belong to.
    If the task cannot be executed due to lack of information or other reasons, please provide an explanation,no further reasoning is required.
    The premise of determining the camp is that you have found enough people (more than {unum}) with the same word, they should belong to the
civilian camp, and the players with the other word belong to the undercover camp.
    You can only determine the camps by finding the team with many people and setting them as the majority, but not by finding a team with few people
and setting them as the minority or undercover, because due to a lack of information, you will leave some players undetermined, and it is likely
that you will not find all the players in the civilian camp.
    Because 'In this game, there are {cnum + unum} players in total. {cnum} civilian players have the same word, and the other {unum} undercover
players have another same word.'
    If there are not enough players for you to find the majority team and judge them as civilian camp, you should not make a judgement about camps,
but continue to observe the players.
    Sample:"'Word A' is corresponding to the CIVILIAN camp, 'Word B' is corresponding to the UNDERCOVER camp."
    Sample:"Camps undetermined due to lack of information.
        
# Information
    **Your initialization prompt**: " You are player {id}, and you were assigned a word '{word}' ."
    - Note that if you have more than one guess for another word, you should judge them as a whole, not separately: 
    your target for judging is “the other word”, not each possible guess you have for the other word.\n
    
    **history of other players' statements**   \n"{dialogue_history}"\n
Figure 13: The prompt for Self-Monitor
# Background
    At the beginning of the game, each player is randomly assigned one of two words that share some similarities.  
    Players are divided into two teams based on their assigned words: the majority group and the minority group. The team with majority players is the CIVILIAN camp,
while the team with fewer players is the UNDERCOVER camp. 
    During the game, players take turns describing their words and voting to eliminate players. The team that eliminates all members of the opposing team wins.
    In this game, there are {cnum + unum} players in total. {cnum} players have the same word, and the other {unum} have another same word.
    
    # Task
    Your task is to output a strategy for your speech in this round. In addition to direct statements, you can also have more complex ways of communication, including but
not limited to: deception, concealment, misleading, confusing, and so on.
    Now, follow these steps in order:
    1. review your camp from [Your analysis of your camp and identity]
    2. Your division of camps determines which strategy you will choose. 
        Output a strategy, explained in two parts: 
        - What are the requirements for the features you want to choose in the ACTION part;
        - Reasons or Purposes to explain your action in the COMMENT part.
        You should not provide specific speech content, only focus on macro-strategy.
    You must deploy strategies based on your definition of camps and team allocations.
    When you confirmed your Camp, unless there is insufficient information to take action (such as not having guessed the other word), you should adopt an aggressive and
proactive strategy.
    You can refer to the following strategies:
    **SELF-PROTECTION**:
    action: Try to make your speech align with both your own word and all the words you guessed.
    - Your description will not directly expose your words, so you can remain unsuspected for the time being and gather more information.
    - You can choose this strategy if you are unsure about your camps, or unsure about the other word.
    - For these purpose, you can try to make your speech more vague and general by describing the category, characteristics rather than details and features.
    
    **DECEIVE AND INTEGRATE**:
    action: try to describe a unique feature of the other word, the feature should not align with your word.
    - Your description will reflect that you obviously know another word, and will enable the other word's team members to think of you as one of them.
    - This strategy can be used when you think you are in UNDERCOVER camp and you have already guessed the other word.
    - Note that if your guess is more than one word, you should look for common features between those guesses to describe it.
    **Cleverly reveal your camp**:
    action: try to describe a unique feature of your word, the feature should not align with the other word.
    - Your description will reflect that you obviously know your word, enable your teammates to identify you, then you can vote out the other opponent players.
    - You should try to make your description more subtle, because revealing unique characteristics risks exposing your words to your opponent's guesses.
    - This strategy can be used when you think you are in CIVILIAN camp. When you found yourself in the minority, you should not use this strategy.
    # Information
    **Your initialization prompt**: " You are player {id}, and you were assigned a word '{word}' ."
    **Your analysis of your camp and identity** \n"{identity}"\n
    **Your analysis of another word's features** \n"{feature}"\n
Figure 14: The prompt for Strategy Planner

--- PAGE 21 ---
    # Background
    At the beginning of the game, each player is randomly assigned one of two words that share some similarities.  
    Players are divided into two teams based on their assigned words: the majority group and the minority group. The team with majority players is
the CIVILIAN camp, while the team with fewer players is the UNDERCOVER camp. 
    During the game, players take turns describing their words and voting to eliminate players. The team that eliminates all members of the
opposing team wins.
    In this game, there are {cnum + unum} players in total. {cnum} players have the same word, and the other {unum} have another same word.
    
    # Task
    You need to describe a feature of the word as your speech. Please follow these steps in order:
    1. Review your strategy and the guesses about the other word, understand the requirements of strategy for your action.
    2. Based on the requirements that the features need to meet, list some candidate features to describe. 
    3. Refer to the game history and select one candidate feature that no other player has described. If all candidate features are used, try to
give some new candidates and retry to choose one.
    4. Describe the selected feature in brief, without the need for additional explanation or exposure of other features. Be careful not to
directly expose words, but to use pronouns instead.
        
    Example: "It has <selected feature>.", "this thing is <selected feature>.", etc.
    # Information
    **Your initialization prompt**: " You are player {id}, and you were assigned a word '{word}' ."
    **Your analysis of another word's features** \n{feature}\n
    **Your strategy** \n"{strategy}"\n
    **history of other players' statements**   \n"{dialogue_history}"\n
Figure 15: The prompt for Actor (Speaker)
    # Background
    At the beginning of the game, each player is randomly assigned one of two words that share some similarities.  Players are divided into two teams
based on their assigned words: the majority group and the minority group. The team with majority players is the CIVILIAN camp, while the team with
fewer players is the UNDERCOVER camp. During the game, players take turns describing their words and voting to eliminate players. The team that
eliminates all members of the opposing team wins. In this game, there are {cnum + unum} players in total. {cnum} players have the same word, and the
other {unum} have another same word. Now it is voting phase, and you should choose one player to vote from {alive}, the player with the most votes
will be eliminated.  voting rule: You can only choose one player to vote, and that player must be alive. {alive} are still alive in this round.
    
    # Task
You need to choose an alive player to vote for expulsion. The player with the most votes will be expelled.
Please follow the steps below in order:
    1. Review your definition of your own identity.
    2. Figure out your winning conditions based on your identity.
    3. Choose one player to vote.
    
    # Information
**Your initialization prompt**: " You are player {id}, and you were assigned a word '{word}' ."
**Your analysis of another word's features** \n"{feature}"\n
**Your analysis of your camp and identity** \n"{identity}"\n
**history of other players' statements**   \n"{dialogue_history}"\n
    - {alive} are players who are still alive in this round, so you can only vote for players in this set. 
Figure 16: The prompt for Actor (Voter)

--- PAGE 22 ---
  ### BACKGROUND:
  At the beginning of the game, each player is randomly assigned one of two words that share some similarities. 
  Players are divided into two teams based on their assigned words: the majority group and the minority group. 
  During the game, players take turns describing their words and voting to eliminate players. The team that eliminates all members of the opposing
team wins.
  In this game, there are {cnum + unum} players in total. {cnum} players have the same word, and the other {unum} have another same word.
  Your game goal now is to describe your words in one sentence, 
      so that your teammates (those who share the same words as you) understand that you are describing your words, 
      but your opponents cannot obtain information about your words from your description.
      If you describe the features directly, your opponent can deduce the object based on the features. 
      Now, let's try using metaphorical methods to describe and distract our opponents.
  Your analysis about the other word: {feature}
    # TASK
      Your current task is to conduct a preliminary analysis of metaphor generation according to the steps, and then select a specific feature of word
'{word}' and a metaphor method. The specific generation task will be carried out later.
      Please refer to the following steps in order:
        1. Understand the principle of metaphor:
          "The conceptual metaphor theory holds that metaphor is not only a rhetorical device, but also a concept and way of thinking. Traditional
metaphor theory regards metaphor as a linguistic phenomenon, a rhetorical device, such as Aristotle's "theory of comparison" and Quintilian's
"theory of substitution", but Lakoff and Johnson believe that metaphor is ubiquitous in daily life, permeating language, thought, and behavior.
          In conceptual metaphor theory, there are concepts of target domain and source domain. Metaphors have two domains: the target domain (composed
of immediate themes) and the source domain, where important metaphorical reasoning occurs and provides source concepts for use in reason.
Metaphorical language has a literal meaning in the source domain, and a metaphorical mapping is multiple, with two or more factors mapped to two or
more factors, and the graphic structure is preserved in the mapping.
          In the theory of conceptual metaphor, the human conceptual system (thought process) is constructed through metaphor, and the metaphors used for
language expression come from the metaphorical conceptual system itself. It is interpreted as a cognitive mechanism that includes source domain,
target domain and their mappings, idealized cognitive patterns, and image schema structures. The main research object of this theory is conventional
metaphors, which can be classified into entity metaphors, structural metaphors, and spatial metaphors based on the different source domains."
        2. Generate some features of your words as candidates, which should be able to distinguish your words from your opponent's words, 
          so that your teammates can understand that you are describing their word.
        3. Understand three types of metaphor, namely:
          - ONTOLOGICAL METAPHOR: 
          Ontological metaphors are those in which abstract concepts or experiences are understood as having an existence or being in some form of object
or substance. 
          This metaphor involves treating abstract concepts like emotions, thoughts, or social relationships as if they were physical objects, 
          which can be perceived, manipulated, or interacted with in a similar way to physical entities. 
          In this framework, abstract phenomena are viewed as "things" or "entities" that can have properties, boundaries, and locations.
          For example:
          "{metaphor1}" This metaphor is describing {word11}. {explain1}
          - STRUCTURAL METAPHOR:
          Structural metaphors involve understanding one complex or abstract domain in terms of another more familiar domain that has a clear and defined
structure. 
          In this type of metaphor, the abstract domain is organized using the structure of a more concrete domain. 
          Essentially, structural metaphors allow us to impose a framework or system of organization from one area onto another, 
          thereby giving the abstract domain a sense of order, hierarchy, and interrelationship among parts. 
          This helps simplify and systematize complex or abstract concepts by grounding them in more familiar structures.
          For example:
          "{metaphor2}" This metaphor is describing {word22}. {explain2}
          - SPATIAL METAPHOR:
          Spatial metaphors are based on the conceptualization of abstract experiences through the lens of spatial relations and positions. 
          These metaphors involve understanding abstract concepts, such as time, emotions, or decision-making, in terms of physical space. 
          Spatial metaphors exploit concepts like direction, location, movement, and distance to map abstract domains. 
          For example, time may be conceptualized as moving through space, or emotional states may be described in terms of up (positive) and down
(negative), 
          with spatial dynamics providing a way to structure the abstract experiences.
          For example:
          "{metaphor3}" This metaphor is describing {word33}. {explain3}
        4. Analyze the features you have listed and identify the most suitable one feature for generating metaphors to achieve the goal of conveying
information to teammates rather than opponents, 
          as well as the appropriate method for generating metaphors. You will get more information about this method.
Figure 17: The prompt for metaphor generation step 1.

--- PAGE 23 ---
# BACKGROUND
      At the beginning of the game, each player is randomly assigned one of two words that share some similarities. 
      Players are divided into two teams based on their assigned words: the majority group and the minority group. 
      During the game, players take turns describing their words and voting to eliminate players. The team that eliminates all members of the opposing team wins.
      In this game, there are {cnum + unum} players in total. {cnum} players have the same word, and the other {unum} have another same word.
      Your analysis about the other word: {feature}
      Your secret word is '{word}'.
      Your game goal now is to describe your words in one sentence, 
      so that your teammates (those who share the same words as you) understand that you are describing your words, 
      but your opponents cannot obtain information about your words from your description.
      Your teammates will try to understand your metaphor by comparing each feature of the word with your description.
      If you describe the feature directly, your opponent can deduce the object based on the features. 
      Now, let's try using metaphorical methods to describe and distract our opponents.
  
    # TASK
      You need to use metaphor to describe your word's feature '{feature}' by using {method}, try to make your teammates understand and avoid your opponents from
deducing your words.
      Please follow these steps in order:
      1. Review the informations that you need:
        - What's your word to describe?
        - What features do you choose to describe in words, or what things are associated with the expansion of words?
        - What's the method you choose to generate metaphor?\n
      2. Your teammates will try to understand your metaphor by comparing the features of each word with your description. 
        And your opponent cannot accurately locate a feature from your metaphor and infer words from the feature, so they cannot guess your words. Please aim for this
effect.
      3. Refer to the theory and case studies of this metaphorical approach, generate your own metaphorical description (a concise sentence) of your word.
        - The theory is in the following format:
        "{method_}"
        - {use1}\n "{metaphor1}"\n This metaphor is describing {word11}. {explain1} {comment1}
        - {use2}\n "{metaphor2}"\n This metaphor is describing {word22}. {explain2} {comment2}
        - {use3}\n "{metaphor3}"\n This metaphor is describing {word33}. {explain3} {comment3}
Figure 18: The prompt for metaphor generation step 2.

--- PAGE 24 ---
You are guiding the other person to say the secret word [{word}], with the aim of making them unconsciously say the word. If the
other party guesses the word before speaking, then you lose. Please follow the following rules:
[Basic Rules]
1. It is necessary to imply based on real information and not fabricate false facts
When the other party suspects a certain word, they can choose:
Adversarial Strategy
Think according to this process:
1. Analyze the other party's last two responses to determine if they are suspecting a certain word and preparing for
speculation
2. If the suspected word is close to the target word:
-You can choose:
a) Continuing to guide using metaphors
b) Introduce concepts that fit the context but differ from the secret word for interference
3. If the suspected word deviates from the target word:
-Think about the scenarios in which your words will be used, 
then combine the guidance direction from the previous round and engage in dialogue and guide the other person to say the words.
[Output Format]
Strictly use the following format:
<RESPONSE>
<FOCUS>Core guidance scenario</FOCUS>
<DISTRACT>Interference direction</DISTRACT>
<DIALOGUE>Natural dialogue content (including the above two elements)</DIALOGUE>
</RESPONSE>
[Reference Information]
Historical dialogue content:
{history}
Your output in the previous round:
{response}
 You are participating in a word attack and defense game, with the following rules:
1. The attacker will try to guide you to say a secret word
2. You need to analyze the conversation to identify possible secret word
3. You can only apply for guessing if you suspect the same word in both this round and the last round
Otherwise, you need to delve deeper into the current topic (Can only answer, not ask back questions), 
but be aware that words that you suspect should not appear in your conversation, 
and instead be replaced with metaphors.
[Thinking Framework]
Each reply strictly follows the following steps:
<THINK>
1. Analyze the guidance direction of the last three rounds of conversations
2. List 1-3 possible candidate words (sorted by likelihood)
3. Comparing historical suspicion records:
-If a candidate word appears for the first time → continue to delve deeper
-If the candidate word is the same as last time → apply for guessing (format: guess:[word])
4. Choose a response strategy
</THINK>
[Output Format]
The following format must be used, including XML tags:
<RESPONSE>
<STRATEGY>[continue|guess]</STRATEGY>
<CANDIDATE>words of doubt</CANDIDATE>
<DIALOGUE>Actual reply content (using daily conversation format, **cannot use words of doubt**)</DIALOGUE>
</RESPONSE>
[Reference Information]
Historical dialogue content:
{history}
Your output in the previous round:
{response}
Figure 19: The prompt for Adversarial Taboo (Simplified)

--- PAGE 25 ---
Animal-themed words
parrot, crow
wolf, tiger
elephant, giraffe
tiger, lion
snake, lizard
fox, coyote
bee, butterfly
goose, duck
shark, whale
horse, donkey
pigeon, sparrow
crocodile, lizard
rabbit, hare
monkey, ape
deer, elk
cat, leopard
snake, python
chicken, duck
cow, buffalo
sheep, goat
pig, boar
dog, wolf
bird, pigeon
fish, shark
spider, scorpion
frog, toad
squirrel, mouse
peacock, pheasant
bat, owl
ant, bee
goldfish, koi
parrot, mynah
cheetah, snow leopard
otter, seal
flamingo, crane
starfish, anemone
ox, yak
hedgehog, porcupine
seagull, tern
crane, heron
silkworm, cicada
water buffalo, rhinoceros
egret, heron
otter, sea otter
termite, ant
panda, koala
kangaroo, emu
hippopotamus, rhinoceros
giraffe, zebra
dolphin, sea lion
Badger, Honey Badger
Kestrel, Peregrine Falcon
Gecko, Tokay Gecko
Octopus, Cuttlefish
Tree Frog, Rain Frog
Cricket, Grasshopper
Walrus, Seal
Platypus, Echidna
Wombat, Tasmanian Devil
Salamander, Fire Salamander
sloth, koala
owl, nightjar
golden snub-nosed monkey, macaque
turtle, tortoise
lizard, chameleon
butterfly, moth
bee, wasp
firefly, moth
snail, slug
spider, mite
starfish, sea urchin
coral, sponge
octopus, cuttlefish
shark, ray
dolphin, whale
jellyfish, sea anemone
shrimp, crab
shellfish, mussel
seahorse, sea dragon
goldfish, carp
bream, grass carp
silver carp, bighead carp
ribbonfish, yellow croaker
flounder, halibut
grouper, perch
salmon, trout
tuna, skipjack
eel, catfish
loach, yellow eel
clam, snail
Meerkat, Mongoose
Capybara, Guinea Pig
Albatross, Petrel
Mantis, Stick Insect
Mole, Wombat
Cheetah, Jaguar
Cardinal, Vermilion Flycatcher
Bass, Sea Bream
Manatee, Dugong
Centipede, Millipede
Figure 20: The collection of 100 animal-themed word pairs for Undercover.

--- PAGE 26 ---
Food-themed words
bread, cake
pineapple, mango
cherry, blueberry
noodle, pasta
Zongzi, mooncake
Macaron, cookie
Pepper Powder, Mustard
pear, peach
rice, noodles
steamed bun, dumpling
dumpling, wonton
cake, biscuit
apple, pear
tomato, potato
carrot, pumpkin
onion, garlic
chicken, duck
beef, mutton
pork, ham
fish, shrimp
crab, shellfish
milk, yogurt
coffee, tea
juice, soda
chocolate, candy
ketchup, chili sauce
soy sauce, vinegar
honey, syrup
olive oil, canola oil
yogurt, cheese
wine, beer
baijiu, whiskey
green tea, black tea
coffee, latte
juice, jam
chocolate, cocoa
ice cream, sherbet
pudding, jelly
roast meat, roast chicken
Peking duck, roast goose
sushi, sashimi
hamburger, hot dog
pizza, pasta
oats, cornflakes
nuts, sunflower seeds
soy milk, bean milk
yogurt, sour milk
juice, fruit tea
honey water, sugar water
lemon water, orange juice
coffee, mocha
milk tea, green milk tea
hot chocolate, chocolate milk
boiled water, mineral water
green tea, oolong tea
black tea, pu-erh tea
flower tea, fruit tea
rice wine, yellow wine
beer, light beer
baijiu, vodka
juice, vegetable juice
salad dressing, mayonnaise
ketchup, mustard
corn, popcorn
sweet potato, purple sweet potato
pumpkin, wax gourd
broccoli, cauliflower
spinach, lettuce
celery, coriander
mushroom, shiitake mushroom
wood ear fungus, tremella
tofu, soy milk
chicken egg, duck egg
quail egg, pigeon egg
cow's milk, goat's milk
honey, maple syrup
olive oil, peanut oil
canola oil, corn oil
soy sauce, light soy sauce
vinegar, aged vinegar
doubanjiang, yellow bean paste
ketchup, sauce
bread, toast
steamed bun, twisted roll
biscuit, cookie
cake, mousse
fruit, vegetable
strawberry, blueberry
peach, plum
watermelon, cantaloupe
grape, raisin
banana, mango
orange, grapefruit
lemon, lime
pineapple, mango
apricot, almond
walnut, cashew
peanut, sunflower seed
almond, hazelnut
pistachio, pine nut
Figure 21: The collection of 100 food-themed word pairs for Undercover.
