--- PAGE 1 ---
arXiv:2506.06698v1  [cs.AI]  7 Jun 2025
Contextual Experience Replay for Self-Improvement of Language Agents
Yitao Liu ♡♠*
Chenglei Si ♢
Karthik Narasimhan ♡
Shunyu Yao ♡
♡Princeton University
♠The University of Hong Kong
♢Stanford University
lyitao17@gmail.com
Abstract
Large language model (LLM) agents have
been applied to sequential decision-making
tasks such as web navigation, but without any
environment-specific experiences, they often
fail in these complex tasks. Moreover, current
LLM agents are not designed to continually
learn from past experiences during inference
time, which could be crucial for them to gain
these environment-specific experiences. To ad-
dress this, we propose Contextual Experience
Replay (CER), a training-free framework to
enable efficient self-improvement for language
agents in their context window. Specifically,
CER accumulates and synthesizes past expe-
riences into a dynamic memory buffer. These
experiences encompass environment dynamics
and common decision-making patterns, allow-
ing the agents to retrieve and augment them-
selves with relevant knowledge in new tasks,
enhancing their adaptability in complex en-
vironments. We evaluate CER on the chal-
lenging WEBARENA and VISUALWEBARENA
benchmarks. On VISUALWEBARENA, CER
achieves competitive performance of 31.9%.
On WEBARENA, CER also gets a competitive
average success rate of 36.7%, relatively im-
proving the success rate of the GPT-4o agent
baseline by 51.0%. We also conduct a com-
prehensive analysis on it to prove its efficiency,
validity and understand it better.
1
Introduction
Building an autonomous agent that can help with
people’s daily tasks has been a long-standing
goal of artificial intelligence research (Russell and
Norvig, 1995; Franklin and Graesser, 1996). Re-
cently, large language models (Achiam et al., 2023;
Anthropic, 2024; Gemini Team, 2023) have shown
impressive performance in text (Hendrycks et al.,
2021) and code generation (Chen et al., 2021; Xie
*This work was done while Yitao was a student researcher
at Princeton University
et al., 2024a), reasoning (Wei et al., 2022; Yao
et al., 2023a), and decision-making tasks (Yao et al.,
2023b; Zhou et al., 2024a; Xu et al., 2023; Xie
et al., 2024b), which paves the way for building
an agent to automate computer tasks. On two re-
alistic web navigation benchmarks, WEBARENA
(Zhou et al., 2024b) and VISUALWEBARENA (Koh
et al., 2024a), humans can achieve success rates of
78.24% and 88.70%, correspondingly. However,
the current methods, with the most frontier models,
can only achieve a success rate of around or less
20% without human involvement.
One important reason is the lack of prior knowl-
edge of each environment, which is critical for such
difficult multi-step task solving in the complex web
environment. While training in each specific envi-
ronment is costly, current language agents seldom
have an efficient way to continually learn about the
environment, so they need to explore the environ-
ment from scratch for every single task (Koh et al.,
2024b).
In this work, we propose Contextual Experience
Replay (CER), a simple and effective framework
to enable the self-improvement of language agents
in complex environments. CER is loosely inspired
by experience replay (Schaul et al., 2016; Rolnick
et al., 2019), an important algorithm in reinforce-
ment learning which highlights storing past trajec-
tories into a buffer and training the agent with these
data.
Our approach allows agents to distill experience
from trajectories, including environment dynam-
ics and common decision-making patterns, from
past trajectories, store them into a dynamic mem-
ory, retrieve them with the current task, and replay
them in context when solving new tasks. Fig.1
shows how CER works under different settings.
Online, offline, and hybrid settings are divided by
the source of trajectories, i.e., the time to get the
trajectories. As in Fig.1, in the online setting, the
agent will start from the inference stage (C) without
1

--- PAGE 2 ---
Task
Trajectories
Distill
Distiller
Merge
Buffer
Retriever
Retrieve
Experiences
Agent
Env
Annotator
OR
Explorer
Training tasks
Online
Trajectory
Offline 
Trajectory 
Collection
CER
Inference
Offline
Trajectorie
s
A.
B.
C. 
Figure 1: Overview of Contextual Experience Replay including offline and online settings. (1) In the online setting,
it will start from stage C and loop between stage C and B for each task, i.e. solve task i, learn experiences from
it and solve task i + 1 with previous experiences, and so on. (2) In the offline setting, stage A is needed to get
offline trajectories, then it goes from stage B to C and finally stays in stage C, i.e., learns experiences from offline
trajectories and solves all tasks. (3) In the hybrid setting, it will begin from stage A and loop between B and C,
conducting both offline and online learning.
any experience. After completing a task, CER gets
the (online) trajectory from it, distills experiences
from the trajectories, and merges it into the buffer.
During the inference of the next task, the agent will
be augmented with retrieved helpful experiences
and so on. In the offline setting, a set of trajectories
will be collected in advance (stage A), distilled into
experiences, and stored. Then, the agent will solve
tasks on the test set with retrieved experience from
the fixed buffer. The hybrid setting is the combi-
nation of these two, i.e., going through the offline
learning stage before online learning. Fig. 2 also
shows how the experience is utilized by the agent
with an example.
We evaluated CER on two realistic web bench-
marks WEBARENA (Zhou et al., 2024b) and VISU-
ALWEBARENA (Koh et al., 2024a). CER improves
the GPT-4o baseline by a large margin and achieves
competitive results on these two benchmarks while
orthogonal with most other methods.
On WE-
BARENA, CER shows a relative improvement of
51.0% over the GPT-4o baseline and achieves an
overall success rate of 36.7%, competitive with
other state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods. On VISU-
ALWEBARENA, CER outperforms the tree search-
based method by 20.8% in relative performance
with dozens of times fewer token costs and achieves
a competitive success rate of 31.9%.
We conducted further analysis to investigate the
improvements of CER with various metrics, such
as cross-template success rate, stability (preser-
vation of old knowledge), and plasticity (acquisi-
tion of new knowledge) (Grossberg, 1982; Rolnick
et al., 2019) (§5.2, §5.3), demonstrating its gener-
alizability and effectiveness as a self-improvement
system. Also, we show that through the combina-
tion with a sampling-based method, CER pushes
the boundary forward again, showing its compati-
bility with other methods (§5.5).
In summary, our contributions are as follows:
• We propose a simple but effective self-
improvement framework for language agents:
CER. CER distills fine-grained skills and en-
vironment dynamics from both successful and
failed trajectories. Importantly, it works for
offline, online, and hybrid settings.
• CER shows competitive performance on mul-
timodal web navigation tasks. It also shows
excellent stability and plasticity (Grossberg,
1982; Rolnick et al., 2019), as well as good
synergy with other off-the-shelf methods.
• We do a comprehensive analysis on CER to
prove its validity and understand the improve-
ments better.
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
2
Related work
LLM Agents
The increasing capabilities of
LLMs have enabled new applications where agents
built with LLMs can take action and interact
with external environments.
To enable action-
taking, methods like ReAct (Yao et al., 2023b)
prompt LLMs to interleave actions and reason-
ing in the output. Apart from action-taking, plan-
ning and search is also an important component
for agents. Methods like Reflexion (Shinn et al.,
2023), Self-Refine (Madaan et al., 2023), Tree-of-
Thought (Yao et al., 2023a), and Tree Search (Koh
et al., 2024b) (Zhou et al., 2024a) enable LLMs
to revise their reasoning and perform deliberate
search among their action space.
Web Agent Environments
LLM agents are in-
creasingly being employed to perform various dig-
ital tasks on behalf of humans, with interacting
with websites being a common application area
supported by numerous benchmarks. For instance,
WebShop (Yao et al., 2022) tasks agents with identi-
fying products that meet specific user requirements
by interacting with e-commerce platforms. Ex-
tensions such as WebArena (Zhou et al., 2024b)
and Mind2Web (Deng et al., 2023) have broadened
the scope of tasks to include a wider variety of
websites and more realistic applications, encom-
passing activities like trip booking, information
retrieval, website navigation, and social media man-
agement. VisualWebArena (Koh et al., 2024a) de-
signs challenging multimodal web navigation tasks
that require agents to leverage visual grounding
and understand image inputs. Among these bench-
marks, WebArena and VisualWebArena provide
the most realistic, controllable, and interactable
environments, which makes the tasks more chal-
lenging and the results reproducible. The inter-
active characteristics are also beneficial for our
self-improvement paradigm.
Learning from Memory or Past Experiences
Some previous works have investigated the storage
of memories of past agent trajectories. Generative
agents (Park et al., 2023) use similar strategies to
investigate human behaviors with such a human-
like strategy. Voyager (Wang et al., 2024a) enables
the agent to learn diverse skills in Minecraft.
Similarly, frameworks such as ExpeL (Zhao
et al., 2023) and Synapse (Zheng et al., 2023) lever-
age stored past task trajectories as memory, which
are dynamically retrieved to support task execu-
tion. However, they either test on relatively sim-
ple web environments (Yao et al., 2022) or use
raw and long observation-action pairs as exem-
plars directly, which limits their applicability to
more complex environments. Learn-by-interact (Su
et al., 2025) uses related documentation to generate
tasks and learn through bridging the misalignment
between task instructions and generated trajecto-
ries. Besides, AutoGuide (Fu et al., 2024), Au-
toManual (Chen et al., 2024), and Agent Workflow
Memory (Wang et al., 2024b) apply similar ideas.
However, their mechanism requires them to ob-
tain the ground truth reward before they can func-
tion, which significantly limits their applicability.
Also, their mechanisms are relatively simple and
not designed for self-improvement in real-world
scenarios. For example, Agent Workflow Mem-
ory does not have a retrieval module and updates
the whole workflow memory in a rewriting style.
In our work, we construct a well-designed, effi-
cient, and scalable self-improvement framework
for autonomous language agents and test it in two
challenging and realistic web environments. The
experiences contain both environment dynamics
and decision-making patterns. We also investigate
it both qualitatively and quantitatively and demon-
strate its advantage in terms of applicability in dif-
ferent learning paradigms and compatibility with
other agent methods.
3
CER: Contextual Experience Replay
Consider a general setup for a language agent A,
powered by a language model M with a context
window C, to solve a sequential decision-making
task in an environment. CER includes four sepa-
rate modules: distillation module D, retrieval mod-
ule R, dynamic experience buffer ϵ and the base
decision-making agent itself A as shows in Fig.1.
CER can start working given a arbitrary set of tra-
jectories T = {τ1, τ2, . . . , τn}. All modules here
are implemented by prompting a visual language
model (VLM), i.e. GPT-4o in our implementation.
Details of prompts for each module can be found
in A.1.
3.1
Distill experiences from trajectories
Given a trajectory set T, the distillation module will
distill experiences E = {E1, E2, . . . , En} from
them one by one where Ei = (Di, Si). Di stands
for environment dynamics, or dynamics in short,
and Si represents useful decision-making patterns,
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
Observation:
RootWebArea 'Postmill', focused
[25] navigation '', visible
[26] link 'Jump to main content', clickable
[27] link 'Jump to sidebar', clickable
[28] navigation '', visible
[30] HeaderAsNonLandmark '', visible
[31] link 'Home', clickable, visible
StaticText 'Postmill'
[41] list '', visible
[42] listitem '', visible
[43] link 'Forums', clickable, visible
[44] listitem '', visible
[45] link 'Wiki', clickable, visible
[46] Section '', visible
[55] searchbox 'Search query', clickable, visible
……
Goal:
Post my question, "what is the recommended console to buy 
these days", in a subreddit where I'm likely to get an answer
Goal:
Post my question, "what is the recommended console to buy 
these days", in a subreddit where I'm likely to get an answer
Dynamics:
dynamic 1: Forums page
Forums page contents: it shows a list of different forums.
Potential usages: navigate to different forums.
URL: http://localhost:9999/forums
……
Skills:
skill 1: post a submission with title “{title}”
1. Click submission button
```click({button_id})```
2. Fill the title
```fill({title_box_id}, {title})```
3. ……
Observation:
RootWebArea 'Postmill', focused
[25] navigation '', visible
[26] link 'Jump to main content', clickable
……
ReAct
ReAct w/ CER
Click (‘45’) - [link] ‘Wiki’
goto (‘http://xxx:9999/forums’)
Click (‘65’) - [button] ‘submit’
Figure 2: Compare ReAct baseline with ReAct + CER. The experiences, including dynamics and skills, are obtained
through multiple modules as in Fig.1. They are "replayed" in the context window of the model, helping the agent to
make correct decisions. For simplicity, the thinking process is neglected in the figure.
or skills in short. The dynamics provide useful state
information to help the agent make state-aware de-
cisions or directly navigate to the state through
its URL. These skills provide common decision-
making patterns, inspiring agents to take better ac-
tion. Fig. 2 provides an example for them. We
use two separate modules for the distillation of
dynamics and skills due to their different charac-
teristics. The detailed prompts are available in A.1.
The output format is similar to ReAct (Yao et al.,
2023b), asking the model to issue a think action
before outputting each distillation. The dynamics
distillation module will distill a list of summaries
of different web pages, their corresponding URL,
and inferred possible usages. The skill distillation
module is instructed to summarize a list of useful
skills. Each of them includes a brief overall sum-
mary (e.g. Navigate to forum {forum name}) and
the corresponding detailed step-by-step guidelines.
Specifically, the guideline contains both natural
language summaries and concrete action examples
for each step, as the example in Fig. 2. While the
natural language summaries provide flexible and
general high-level instruction, the example helps
the agent to understand the step and also format
its output better. The model is required to output
the final distillation in an abstract and general way,
i.e. navigate to forum {forum name} instead of
navigate to forum "books", to ensure that the expe-
riences can be broadly applied. The model is also
provided with existing experiences in the buffer to
avoid repetitive distillation, allowing the continual
accumulation of the experiences across time.
3.2
Retrieve experiences from buffer
After the distillation period, the buffer ϵ now
includes a set of useful experiences E
=
{E1, E2, . . . , En}. Similar to the distillation mod-
ule, we designed two separate modules to retrieve
dynamics and skills correspondingly. Each module
is implemented by prompting a VLM. We prompt
the model with general instructions, the current
4

--- PAGE 5 ---
task goal, the website descriptions, and all dynam-
ics or skills available in the buffer. Then, the model
will output the top-k useful and informative expe-
riences and pass this to the language agent. The
prompts can be found in A.1. This module makes it
possible for the distillation module to continuously
merge new experiences and help the agent filter out
useful experiences for the current task.
3.3
Decision-making with Contextual
experience replay
To best utilize the in-context learning capability
of language models, we transform the selected k
experiences E = {E1, E2, . . . , Ek} into natural
language experience descriptions ENL = f(E)
through a programmatic mapping f and integrate
them into the model’s context C, resulting in a
new augmented context C′ = g(C, ENL). There-
fore, the decision-making policy underneath will
be influenced by the additional experiences, and the
agent A can issue better actions with reference to
the experiences. The context comparison between
the baseline agent and CER is shown in Fig.2.
3.4
Combination of offline and online learning
The source of the trajectories to learn from is impor-
tant for CER. Depending on the source of trajec-
tory data, CER can be divided into offline, online,
and hybrid versions. Online data is collected from
past task-solving trajectories in the environment
during inference time. Specifically, in the online
setting, there are no trajectories provided at the
very beginning, but as the procedure goes on, there
will be self-generated trajectories from past tasks.
CER will run the distillation module after each
task and run the retrieval and replay module in the
next task. Different from an online setting, offline
learning means there is a training set of trajecto-
ries at the beginning for CER to learn from but
no further learning during inference. Additionally,
these two settings can be combined to serve as a
whole system, i.e., learn from a fixed training set
first and then self-evolve in the environment with
self-generated data.
4
Experiments
We evaluate CER on the full set of WEBARENA
(Zhou et al., 2024b) (WA) in offline, online, and hy-
brid settings. For VISUALWEBARENA (Koh et al.,
2024a) (VWA), we only evaluate in an online set-
ting for cost consideration. The reason we chose
these two is that they provide interactive, realistic,
and reproducible web environments that are better
for applying self-improvement and still close to
real-world scenarios. WEBARENA have 812 tasks
across five different websites corresponding to dif-
ferent domains: shopping, shopping administration,
online forum, map, and project collaboration (Git-
lab). VISUALWEBARENA retains the shopping and
forum website, adds another classifieds website,
and designs 910 tasks on top of them. Although
they share two websites, the focus of their tasks is
different. Most of the tasks in WEBARENA only
have text descriptions of task goals, while a large
portion of tasks in VISUALWEBARENA involve
visual input as part of task goals and require an un-
derstanding of the visual information of the current
website. This also leads to their large variations of
task types.
4.1
Implementation Details
4.1.1
WebArena
For WEBARENA, we evaluate all three settings of
CER: offline, online and hybrid. In the offline
setting, for training tasks, we first ask individuals
unfamiliar with WEBARENA to navigate the web-
site for three hours and design a few tasks they
consider important. A filtering process is then ap-
plied to ensure that these tasks do not overlap with
the test set. Finally, these tasks are annotated by
humans to obtain gold trajectories for offline learn-
ing. The final tasks are listed in A.4. The data
can also be annotated automatically by an LLM
explorer. Due to space limitations, we discussed
and compared these two offline data sources in
A.5. We use GPT-4o-2024-0513 as the backbone
language model with a temperature of 0.1. We
use BrowserGym (Drouin et al., 2024) as the en-
vironment, which provides both text and visual
observation for the agent and adds additional in-
formation for clickable and visible elements in the
accessibility tree of the webpage. To fairly high-
light the improvement of CER, we run GPT-4o w/
BrowserGym (Drouin et al., 2024) by ourselves
as the baseline for comparison. CER is compati-
ble with most off-the-shelf language model agents
since it only needs the past trajectories. Here, we
test it with a simple method by prompting GPT-4o
directly and using ReAct (Yao et al., 2023b) as the
output format as in BrowserGym (Drouin et al.,
2024) and WEBARENA (Zhou et al., 2024b). We
also combine it with another performant method
and observe significant improvements(§5.5). We
5

--- PAGE 6 ---
Table 1: Success rates (SR) of published open-source methods and CER up to the completion of this work on
WEBARENA, Bold represents the best result on the website while underline means the second best results. The
results originate from the corresponding papers except BrowserGym which we reproduce the GPT-4o version
by ourselves. *: SteP (Sodhi et al., 2024) uses human-designed detailed policies for each website, so it is not
comparable with other autonomous methods without human involvement and we set it apart just for references.
Method
Shopping
CMS
Forum
Gitlab
Map
Average
SteP* (Sodhi et al., 2024)
37.0
24.0
59.0
32.0
30.0
33.0
WebArena (Zhou et al., 2024b)
24.0
11.0
7.9
10.2
21.1
15.0
AutoEval (Pan et al., 2024)
25.5
18.1
25.4
28.6
31.9
20.2
BrowserGym (Drouin et al., 2024)
26.6
28
22.8
21.4
18.4
24.3
CERoffline
29.2
36.8
33.3
36.7
29.5
33.4
CERonline
29.2
36.3
37.7
34.2
28.6
33.2
CERhybrid
32.8
41.2
41.2
37.2
30.4
36.7
Table 2: Success rates (SR) of published open-source methods and CER on VISUALWEBARENA, Bold represents the
best result in the domain. Results are from the corresponding papers except BrowserGym. We implement the agent
with BrowserGym by ourselves. Due to cost consideration, we evaluate CERonline only on VISUALWEBARENA
.
Method
Classifieds
Shopping
Forum
Average
VisualWebArena (Koh et al., 2024a)
18.4
20.0
17.1
18.9
BrowserGym (Drouin et al., 2024)
26.2
28.2
21.1
26.2
Tree Search (Koh et al., 2024b)
26.5
29.0
20.5
26.4
CERonline
27.0
38.1
24.4
31.9
set the retrieval parameter to kd = 5 and ks = 5,
denoting the maximum number of dynamics/skills
to retrieve and replay.
4.1.2
VisualWebArena
For VISUALWEBARENA, similar to WEBARENA,
we still use BrowserGym (Drouin et al., 2024) as
our environment. Since BrowserGym does not sup-
port visual evaluation, we implemented the envi-
ronment by ourselves and built CER on top of that.
We also run BrowserGym results as the baseline
for comparison. Using the same setting as (Koh
et al., 2024a), we apply Set-of-Marks (SoM) (Yang
et al., 2023) to the original screenshot of the web-
page. This method marks each interactable element
of the webpage with a highlighted bounding box
and the corresponding unique element ID on the
corner of the box to enable grounding. Besides the
screenshot, the agent is also provided with text ob-
servation of the environment for better grounding,
where the ID of each element is consistent with the
one in the SoM-processed screenshot.
4.2
Results
Our results on these two benchmarks are summa-
rized in Table 1 and Table 2. On WEBARENA
and VISUALWEBARENA, while orthogonal to the
other methods, CER achieves competitive perfor-
mance and improves the baseline agent, GPT-4o
w/ BrowserGym (Drouin et al., 2024), relatively
by 51.0% (CERhybrid) and 21.8% (CERonline) re-
spectively. It should be noted that SteP (Sodhi et al.,
2024) uses human-designed policies, i.e., step-by-
step instructions for each website split, and can
need much extra human effort when encountering
new cases or on new websites. So we do not con-
sider it when comparing CER with other methods.
On VISUALWEBARENA, CER achieves competi-
tive performance and outperforms the tree search
method (Koh et al., 2024b), which is also built on
GPT-4o, with much lower token costs. The result
of the tree search is obtained through a search algo-
rithm that uses 20 times sampling at each step, and
a maximum of 5 steps, with extra costs of GPT-4o
6

--- PAGE 7 ---
used as a value function. In our implementation,
we use a maximum of only 30 steps for each task,
similar to the setting in (Zhou et al., 2024b) and
(Koh et al., 2024a), thus using at least 3 times fewer
tokens.
5
Analysis
In this section, we conduct extensive analysis to
investigate and better understand CER’s improve-
ments through token efficiency, cross-template suc-
cess rates and two interesting metrics for self-
improvement systems: stability and plasticity. Fi-
nally, we validate its compatibility and synergy
with other performant methods, proving its wide
applicability.
5.1
Token efficiency
We have shown the effectiveness of our method
in previous sections. Token efficiency, however,
is also an important part to consider. We analyze
the token cost of the ReAct baseline and CER un-
der three different settings. Results are shown in
Table 3 which shows that CER enables language
agents to learn from past experiences efficiently
(only minor additional costs, see table below) and
effectively (significant improvement by 52.5%). It
shows that utilizing past experiences is essential
for agents to do well and provide a simple but ef-
fective solution. Additionally, we also show in
5.5 that CER can synergize well with other perfor-
mant methods like Tree Search (Koh et al., 2024b)
(we use the single-turn version of it for simplicity,
which is sampling+reranking). This means that
with acceptable minor cost, CER can improve a
base agent (e.g., ReAct or Tree Search) method
easily and notably.
5.2
Investigating improvements of CER
In this section, we try to understand where the
improvements of CER come from and get some
intuitions about how CER works.
Intuitively, the state space and action space for
the current step are extremely large. However, for
human users, the states that we often navigate to
and the actions that we usually take are only a
small subset of the whole space. Experiences dis-
tilled from some goal-oriented trajectories tend
to contain some informative and effective states
and actions that are often navigated to or used.
With the highlighted promising states, actions, and
decision-making patterns, the agent can issue a cor-
rect action much more easily. Of course, some
of the experiences can be noisy and misleading.
We show in section 5.6 that CER is still robust to
the correctness of the trajectories. This intuition
also aligns with the Recognition Primed Decision
making Model proposed by (Klein, 1998), where
humans tend to recognize promising actions when
encountering complex environments.
We also conduct quantitative comparisons be-
tween CER and baseline method to investigate the
improvements. The tasks in WEBARENA are de-
signed based on templates, and at most, five tasks
share the same template. If the agent just memo-
rizes the pattern of the whole task, it will be able to
solve some other tasks in the same template more
easily, thus improving the overall performance. So,
we use the cross-template average success rate, cal-
culated by the number of templates solved (at least
one task is solved) divided by the total number of
templates. We run experiments on Forum tasks
of WEBARENA. The results are shown in Table
4. CER shows a significant improvement in cross-
template success rates. This result validates that the
improvement of CER does not come from mem-
orizing the whole trajectory of a task. Instead, it
distills more fine-grained experiences, which al-
lows for the generalization of different types of
tasks.
5.3
Stability and Plasticity
A well-designed self-improvement system should
demonstrate both stability (preservation of old
knowledge) and plasticity (acquisition of new
knowledge) (Grossberg, 1982; Rolnick et al., 2019).
Since knowledge is hard to measure in our case, we
measure the acquisition of new knowledge through
problem-solving ability, i.e., success rates, in a
specific environment. Therefore, we similarly mea-
sure the stability and plasticity of CER in cross-
template success rate (ct-SR) since the success
in new types of task demonstrates new problem-
solving ability. Specifically, stability is measured
through the percentage of tasks from the base-
line that CER is able to solve, which reflects how
well CER maintains the original capability of the
baseline. Plasticity is measured by the improve-
ment of CER on new cases, measuring how many
additional tasks CER can solve compared to the
baseline. Since CER can be understood as a self-
improvement system built on the baseline method
agent. We set the stability and plasticity of the base-
line to 100% and used the ct-SR to calculate the
stability and plasticity of CER. The results are also
7

--- PAGE 8 ---
Table 3: Token efficiency and performance comparison between ReAct baseline and CER in three different settings.
Since output tokens do not change much, we only count input tokens here.
Method
Success Rate
∆Tokens
∆Tokens (%)
∆SR (%)
ReAct (BrowserGym)
24.3
0
0%
0%
CERoffline
33.4
7885
5.8%
37.8%
CERonline
33.2
16337
11.2%
36.7%
CERhybrid
36.7
20631
17.3%
52.5%
Table 4: Cross-template success rates (ct-SR), stability
and plasticity of CER and baseline on the Forum split
of WEBARENA
Method
ct-SR
Stability (%)
Plasticity (%)
Baseline
44.7
100
100
CER
60.0
93
141
Table 5: Comparison of success rates (SR) of ReAct
and ReAct w/ CER with Llama-3.1-70B on the Gitlab
split of WEBARENA
Method
SR
Baseline (ReAct)
17.3
CERhybrid
22.0
shown in Table 4. With most of the original abili-
ties retained, CER demonstrates 41% new problem
types solved, proving the validity of CER as a self-
improvement framework. This also indicates the
potential of the compatibility with other performant
methods, which we discuss in detail in section 5.5.
5.4
Validity on open-source models
We also evaluate CER on a weaker open-source
model: Llama-3.1-70B (Grattafiori et al., 2024).
We evaluate the ReAct baseline and CER on Git-
lab split (the largest split on WEBARENA). As
shown in Fig. 5, CER still improves the base-
line relatively by 26.53%, proving its validity on
weaker open-source models.
However, the im-
provement is smaller than it is with strong mod-
els like GPT-4o. We also analyzed the results and
found that weaker models like llama3.1 do worse
compared with GPT-4o at formatting their output
when solving challenging tasks like WEBARENA
with a larger action space. This also influence their
robustness when distilling some multi-step, useful
and well-formatted skills, which explains why the
improvement is relatively smaller than it does on
strong models like GPT-4o.
5.5
Synergy with performant methods
We also analyze the compatibility of CER with
other performant methods. Tree search (Koh et al.,
2024b) is a computing-intensive method with more
explorations and backtracking to search for better
action to take. However, due to the high costs and
the long time it takes, we chose another compara-
ble method of it: trajectory sampling and reranking.
We sampled 3 times for each task with max steps
of 20 and prompted a language model with the
trajectories to give a score and select the trajec-
tory with the highest score as the final one. The
procedure of applying CER to such method is
similar to what we do with baseline agent. We
conduct experiments in an online setting on the
Forums split of WEBARENA. The results are in
Table 6. CER with sampling method improves
CER w/ ReAct performance by a relative success
rate increase of 39.5%. This is because, firstly,
such performant methods generally have better pre-
cision from start to end, so the experiences dis-
tilled from them are of higher quality. Additionally,
high-quality experiences make performant methods
more robust through the learned experiences and
provide environment-specific knowledge to help
better decision-making.
5.6
Access to ground truth rewards
Currently, CER distills experiences from both suc-
cessful and failed cases. To investigate whether
the distillation from failed cases is a bottleneck of
CER, we run CER for only successful trajectories
evaluated by ground truth evaluators. We conduct
the experiments on the full set of WEBARENA. The
results are summarized in Table 7. The results show
8

--- PAGE 9 ---
Table 6: Comparison of success rates (SR) of CER
and CER w/ trajectory sampling and reranking on the
Forum split of WEBARENA
Method
SR
CER
37.7
Sampling
43.1
CER w/ sampling
52.6
Table 7: Success rates (SR) of CER and CERsuccess
on WEBARENA. CERsuccess uses ground truth evalu-
ators from the environment to filter out and learn from
successful experiences only. Both method takes text
observation for comparison
.
Method
Average
CER
31.4
CERsuccess
33.5
that CER performs better with the access to ground
truth reward. The possible reason could be that the
successful trajectories have higher quality and are
more informative, while the failed trajectories pro-
vide some misleading action sequences that will
negatively influence the agent’s decision-making.
Nevertheless, the acceptable gap and significant
improvements over the baseline agent show the
robustness of CER given noisy trajectories. This
gives credit to the implicit reasoning ability and
the flexible natural language representation of ex-
periences. Although provided with a few noisy
experiences, the agent can still filter out useful tra-
jectories and issue reasonable action mostly.
5.7
Division of Dynamics and skills
We conduct an ablation experiment to investigate
the necessity of the division of dynamics and skills.
The experiment is run on the Forums split of We-
bArena. The results in Table 8 show that both
dynamics and skills are important for CER. En-
vironment dynamics make the agent aware of the
content of many pages and also provide the URL
to navigate to. Skills inspire the agent and also pro-
vide promising actions to be taken in the current
step. They provide heuristics in terms of states and
actions correspondingly and synergize with each
other.
Table 8: Success rates (SR) of CER on the Forum split
of WebArena with different ablation settings to the ex-
periences.
Method
SR
CER
37.7
CER- skills
33.3
CER- dynamics
35.1
6
Conclusions
In this paper, we proposed a training-free frame-
work for efficient and effective self-improvement
of language agents in complex web environments.
Our framework enables language agents to learn
from past experiences and replay during inference
time for better decision-making. We also conduct
extensive analysis to investigate its improvements
and validate its effectiveness as a self-improvement
system through stability and plasticity. We believe
that learning from past experiences is crucial for
building a helpful computer agent that can adapt to
different environments and evolve autonomously.
7
Limitations
Despite the substantial progress achieved with
CER, there are several limitations that will influ-
ence its applicability and could be addressed in fu-
ture work. First, table 1 shows that although CER
performs even better in offline + online settings,
it requires the trajectories to be goal-oriented to
distill high-quality experiences. The performance
is limited if trajectories from random explorations
are provided. The more fine-grained utilization of
low-quality trajectories could be explored in the
future. Secondly, the environment dynamics help
much in web environments, as shown in section
5.7, partially because the agent can directly navi-
gate to a specific page with its URL. It would be
interesting to investigate how we can utilize the
environment dynamics in other agent tasks, such as
real-world navigation (Shridhar et al., 2021) in fu-
ture work. Also, CER needs to learn trajectory data
before starting the task. In online setting, the frame-
work may not be able to use trajectory learning in
the initial decision. In offline setting, the human-
annotated trajectory will be used for CER learning,
but the trajectory data prepared in advance depends
on the annotation of the human annotator. Hybrid is
a good improvement solution, but it still can hardly
9

--- PAGE 10 ---
avoid dependence on the human annotator. How to
generate such trajectories in a more efficient way
would be an interesting topic to dive into in the
future.
8
Ethical and Broader Impacts
8.1
Real World Impacts
Advancing the capabilities of autonomous agents
comes with many broader considerations and eth-
ical implications.
Strong autonomous agents
have the potential to improve the accessibility of
computer-based tasks, potentially aiding individu-
als with disabilities or those lacking technical skills.
More broadly, agents have the potential to automate
large portions of routine computer work. While the
capabilities of existing autonomous agents are in-
sufficient for even simple tasks (as shown in this
paper), these impacts highlight the need to ensure
that the broader economic and social implications
on employment are carefully considered if/when
autonomous agents are deployed in real world ap-
plications.
8.2
Bias and Safety
When developing autonomous agents, it is also
imperative to ensure that these agents do not inad-
vertently exclude or disadvantage any group. Fur-
ther analysis is essential to ensure that deployed
agents do not exhibit unintended biases. Agents
also have the potential to cause more harm (than
regular LLMs) in real world applications if careful
safeguards are not in place. Further research is nec-
essary to understand and mitigate possible harmful
behaviors.
8.3
Intended Uses
Our method is based on WEBARENA and VISU-
ALWEBARENA which are research benchmarks to
measure and evaluate the progress of multimodal
agents. The models and methods we presented
in this paper are research prototypes, and not in-
tended for deployment in practical applications in
their current state (especially in high risk domains).
References
J. Achiam, S. Adler, S. Agarwal, L. Ahmad, I. Akkaya,
F. L. Aleman, D. Almeida, J. Altenschmidt, S. Alt-
man, S. Anadkat, et al. 2023. Gpt-4 technical report.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774.
A. Anthropic. 2024. The claude 3 model family: Opus,
sonnet, haiku. Claude-3 Model Card, 1.
Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming
Yuan, Henrique Ponde de Oliveira Pinto, Jared Ka-
plan, Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph,
Greg Brockman, Alex Ray, Raul Puri, Gretchen
Krueger, Michael Petrov, Heidy Khlaaf, Girish Sas-
try, Pamela Mishkin, Brooke Chan, Scott Gray,
Nick Ryder, Mikhail Pavlov, Alethea Power, Lukasz
Kaiser, Mohammad Bavarian, Clemens Winter,
Philippe Tillet, Felipe Petroski Such, Dave Cum-
mings, Matthias Plappert, Fotios Chantzis, Eliza-
beth Barnes, Ariel Herbert-Voss, William Hebgen
Guss, Alex Nichol, Alex Paino, Nikolas Tezak, Jie
Tang, Igor Babuschkin, Suchir Balaji, Shantanu Jain,
William Saunders, Christopher Hesse, Andrew N.
Carr, Jan Leike, Josh Achiam, Vedant Misra, Evan
Morikawa, Alec Radford, Matthew Knight, Miles
Brundage, Mira Murati, Katie Mayer, Peter Welinder,
Bob McGrew, Dario Amodei, Sam McCandlish, Ilya
Sutskever, and Wojciech Zaremba. 2021. Evaluat-
ing large language models trained on code. Preprint,
arXiv:2107.03374.
Minghao Chen, Yihang Li, Yanting Yang, Shiyu Yu,
Binbin Lin, and Xiaofei He. 2024.
Automanual:
Generating instruction manuals by LLM agents via
interactive environmental learning. In The Thirty-
eighth Annual Conference on Neural Information
Processing Systems.
Xiang Deng, Yu Gu, Boyuan Zheng, Shijie Chen,
Samuel Stevens, Boshi Wang, Huan Sun, and Yu Su.
2023. Mind2web: Towards a generalist agent for
the web. Advances in neural information processing
systems, Datasets and Benchmarks Track, 36.
Alexandre Drouin, Maxime Gasse, Massimo Caccia, Is-
sam H. Laradji, Manuel Del Verme, Tom Marty, Léo
Boisvert, Megh Thakkar, Quentin Cappart, David
Vazquez, Nicolas Chapados, and Alexandre Lacoste.
2024. Workarena: How capable are web agents at
solving common knowledge work tasks? Interna-
tional Conference on Machine Learning.
Stan Franklin and Art Graesser. 1996. Is it an agent, or
just a program? a taxonomy for autonomous agents.
In International Workshop on Agent Theories, Archi-
tectures, and Languages, pages 21–35. Springer.
Yao Fu, Dong-Ki Kim, Jaekyeom Kim, Sungryull
Sohn, Lajanugen Logeswaran, Kyunghoon Bae, and
Honglak Lee. 2024. Autoguide: Automated gener-
ation and selection of context-aware guidelines for
large language model agents. In ICML 2024 Work-
shop on LLMs and Cognition.
Google Gemini Team. 2023.
Gemini: A family of
highly capable multimodal models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2312.11805.
Aaron Grattafiori, Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri,
Abhinav Pandey, Abhishek Kadian, Ahmad Al-
Dahle, Aiesha Letman, Akhil Mathur, Alan Schel-
ten, Alex Vaughan, Amy Yang, Angela Fan, Anirudh
Goyal, Anthony Hartshorn, Aobo Yang, Archi Mi-
tra, Archie Sravankumar, Artem Korenev, Arthur
10

--- PAGE 11 ---
Hinsvark, Arun Rao, Aston Zhang, Aurelien Ro-
driguez, Austen Gregerson, Ava Spataru, Baptiste
Roziere, Bethany Biron, Binh Tang, Bobbie Chern,
Charlotte Caucheteux, Chaya Nayak, Chloe Bi,
Chris Marra, Chris McConnell, Christian Keller,
Christophe Touret, Chunyang Wu, Corinne Wong,
Cristian Canton Ferrer, Cyrus Nikolaidis, Damien Al-
lonsius, Daniel Song, Danielle Pintz, Danny Livshits,
Danny Wyatt, David Esiobu, Dhruv Choudhary,
Dhruv Mahajan, Diego Garcia-Olano, Diego Perino,
Dieuwke Hupkes, Egor Lakomkin, Ehab AlBadawy,
Elina Lobanova, Emily Dinan, Eric Michael Smith,
Filip Radenovic, Francisco Guzmán, Frank Zhang,
Gabriel Synnaeve, Gabrielle Lee, Georgia Lewis An-
derson, Govind Thattai, Graeme Nail, Gregoire Mi-
alon, Guan Pang, Guillem Cucurell, Hailey Nguyen,
Hannah Korevaar, Hu Xu, Hugo Touvron, Iliyan
Zarov, Imanol Arrieta Ibarra, Isabel Kloumann, Is-
han Misra, Ivan Evtimov, Jack Zhang, Jade Copet,
Jaewon Lee, Jan Geffert, Jana Vranes, Jason Park,
Jay Mahadeokar, Jeet Shah, Jelmer van der Linde,
Jennifer Billock, Jenny Hong, Jenya Lee, Jeremy Fu,
Jianfeng Chi, Jianyu Huang, Jiawen Liu, Jie Wang,
Jiecao Yu, Joanna Bitton, Joe Spisak, Jongsoo Park,
Joseph Rocca, Joshua Johnstun, Joshua Saxe, Jun-
teng Jia, Kalyan Vasuden Alwala, Karthik Prasad,
Kartikeya Upasani, Kate Plawiak, Ke Li, Kenneth
Heafield, Kevin Stone, Khalid El-Arini, Krithika Iyer,
Kshitiz Malik, Kuenley Chiu, Kunal Bhalla, Kushal
Lakhotia, Lauren Rantala-Yeary, Laurens van der
Maaten, Lawrence Chen, Liang Tan, Liz Jenkins,
Louis Martin, Lovish Madaan, Lubo Malo, Lukas
Blecher, Lukas Landzaat, Luke de Oliveira, Madeline
Muzzi, Mahesh Pasupuleti, Mannat Singh, Manohar
Paluri, Marcin Kardas, Maria Tsimpoukelli, Mathew
Oldham, Mathieu Rita, Maya Pavlova, Melanie Kam-
badur, Mike Lewis, Min Si, Mitesh Kumar Singh,
Mona Hassan, Naman Goyal, Narjes Torabi, Niko-
lay Bashlykov, Nikolay Bogoychev, Niladri Chatterji,
Ning Zhang, Olivier Duchenne, Onur Çelebi, Patrick
Alrassy, Pengchuan Zhang, Pengwei Li, Petar Va-
sic, Peter Weng, Prajjwal Bhargava, Pratik Dubal,
Praveen Krishnan, Punit Singh Koura, Puxin Xu,
Qing He, Qingxiao Dong, Ragavan Srinivasan, Raj
Ganapathy, Ramon Calderer, Ricardo Silveira Cabral,
Robert Stojnic, Roberta Raileanu, Rohan Maheswari,
Rohit Girdhar, Rohit Patel, Romain Sauvestre, Ron-
nie Polidoro, Roshan Sumbaly, Ross Taylor, Ruan
Silva, Rui Hou, Rui Wang, Saghar Hosseini, Sa-
hana Chennabasappa, Sanjay Singh, Sean Bell, Seo-
hyun Sonia Kim, Sergey Edunov, Shaoliang Nie, Sha-
ran Narang, Sharath Raparthy, Sheng Shen, Shengye
Wan, Shruti Bhosale, Shun Zhang, Simon Van-
denhende, Soumya Batra, Spencer Whitman, Sten
Sootla, Stephane Collot, Suchin Gururangan, Syd-
ney Borodinsky, Tamar Herman, Tara Fowler, Tarek
Sheasha, Thomas Georgiou, Thomas Scialom, Tobias
Speckbacher, Todor Mihaylov, Tong Xiao, Ujjwal
Karn, Vedanuj Goswami, Vibhor Gupta, Vignesh
Ramanathan, Viktor Kerkez, Vincent Gonguet, Vir-
ginie Do, Vish Vogeti, Vítor Albiero, Vladan Petro-
vic, Weiwei Chu, Wenhan Xiong, Wenyin Fu, Whit-
ney Meers, Xavier Martinet, Xiaodong Wang, Xi-
aofang Wang, Xiaoqing Ellen Tan, Xide Xia, Xin-
feng Xie, Xuchao Jia, Xuewei Wang, Yaelle Gold-
schlag, Yashesh Gaur, Yasmine Babaei, Yi Wen,
Yiwen Song, Yuchen Zhang, Yue Li, Yuning Mao,
Zacharie Delpierre Coudert, Zheng Yan, Zhengxing
Chen, Zoe Papakipos, Aaditya Singh, Aayushi Sri-
vastava, Abha Jain, Adam Kelsey, Adam Shajnfeld,
Adithya Gangidi, Adolfo Victoria, Ahuva Goldstand,
Ajay Menon, Ajay Sharma, Alex Boesenberg, Alexei
Baevski, Allie Feinstein, Amanda Kallet, Amit San-
gani, Amos Teo, Anam Yunus, Andrei Lupu, An-
dres Alvarado, Andrew Caples, Andrew Gu, Andrew
Ho, Andrew Poulton, Andrew Ryan, Ankit Ramchan-
dani, Annie Dong, Annie Franco, Anuj Goyal, Apara-
jita Saraf, Arkabandhu Chowdhury, Ashley Gabriel,
Ashwin Bharambe, Assaf Eisenman, Azadeh Yaz-
dan, Beau James, Ben Maurer, Benjamin Leonhardi,
Bernie Huang, Beth Loyd, Beto De Paola, Bhargavi
Paranjape, Bing Liu, Bo Wu, Boyu Ni, Braden Han-
cock, Bram Wasti, Brandon Spence, Brani Stojkovic,
Brian Gamido, Britt Montalvo, Carl Parker, Carly
Burton, Catalina Mejia, Ce Liu, Changhan Wang,
Changkyu Kim, Chao Zhou, Chester Hu, Ching-
Hsiang Chu, Chris Cai, Chris Tindal, Christoph Fe-
ichtenhofer, Cynthia Gao, Damon Civin, Dana Beaty,
Daniel Kreymer, Daniel Li, David Adkins, David
Xu, Davide Testuggine, Delia David, Devi Parikh,
Diana Liskovich, Didem Foss, Dingkang Wang, Duc
Le, Dustin Holland, Edward Dowling, Eissa Jamil,
Elaine Montgomery, Eleonora Presani, Emily Hahn,
Emily Wood, Eric-Tuan Le, Erik Brinkman, Este-
ban Arcaute, Evan Dunbar, Evan Smothers, Fei Sun,
Felix Kreuk, Feng Tian, Filippos Kokkinos, Firat
Ozgenel, Francesco Caggioni, Frank Kanayet, Frank
Seide, Gabriela Medina Florez, Gabriella Schwarz,
Gada Badeer, Georgia Swee, Gil Halpern, Grant
Herman, Grigory Sizov, Guangyi, Zhang, Guna
Lakshminarayanan, Hakan Inan, Hamid Shojanaz-
eri, Han Zou, Hannah Wang, Hanwen Zha, Haroun
Habeeb, Harrison Rudolph, Helen Suk, Henry As-
pegren, Hunter Goldman, Hongyuan Zhan, Ibrahim
Damlaj, Igor Molybog, Igor Tufanov, Ilias Leontiadis,
Irina-Elena Veliche, Itai Gat, Jake Weissman, James
Geboski, James Kohli, Janice Lam, Japhet Asher,
Jean-Baptiste Gaya, Jeff Marcus, Jeff Tang, Jen-
nifer Chan, Jenny Zhen, Jeremy Reizenstein, Jeremy
Teboul, Jessica Zhong, Jian Jin, Jingyi Yang, Joe
Cummings, Jon Carvill, Jon Shepard, Jonathan Mc-
Phie, Jonathan Torres, Josh Ginsburg, Junjie Wang,
Kai Wu, Kam Hou U, Karan Saxena, Kartikay Khan-
delwal, Katayoun Zand, Kathy Matosich, Kaushik
Veeraraghavan, Kelly Michelena, Keqian Li, Ki-
ran Jagadeesh, Kun Huang, Kunal Chawla, Kyle
Huang, Lailin Chen, Lakshya Garg, Lavender A,
Leandro Silva, Lee Bell, Lei Zhang, Liangpeng
Guo, Licheng Yu, Liron Moshkovich, Luca Wehrst-
edt, Madian Khabsa, Manav Avalani, Manish Bhatt,
Martynas Mankus, Matan Hasson, Matthew Lennie,
Matthias Reso, Maxim Groshev, Maxim Naumov,
Maya Lathi, Meghan Keneally, Miao Liu, Michael L.
Seltzer, Michal Valko, Michelle Restrepo, Mihir Pa-
tel, Mik Vyatskov, Mikayel Samvelyan, Mike Clark,
Mike Macey, Mike Wang, Miquel Jubert Hermoso,
Mo Metanat, Mohammad Rastegari, Munish Bansal,
Nandhini Santhanam, Natascha Parks, Natasha
11

--- PAGE 12 ---
White, Navyata Bawa, Nayan Singhal, Nick Egebo,
Nicolas Usunier, Nikhil Mehta, Nikolay Pavlovich
Laptev, Ning Dong, Norman Cheng, Oleg Chernoguz,
Olivia Hart, Omkar Salpekar, Ozlem Kalinli, Parkin
Kent, Parth Parekh, Paul Saab, Pavan Balaji, Pe-
dro Rittner, Philip Bontrager, Pierre Roux, Piotr
Dollar, Polina Zvyagina, Prashant Ratanchandani,
Pritish Yuvraj, Qian Liang, Rachad Alao, Rachel
Rodriguez, Rafi Ayub, Raghotham Murthy, Raghu
Nayani, Rahul Mitra, Rangaprabhu Parthasarathy,
Raymond Li, Rebekkah Hogan, Robin Battey, Rocky
Wang, Russ Howes, Ruty Rinott, Sachin Mehta,
Sachin Siby, Sai Jayesh Bondu, Samyak Datta, Sara
Chugh, Sara Hunt, Sargun Dhillon, Sasha Sidorov,
Satadru Pan, Saurabh Mahajan, Saurabh Verma,
Seiji Yamamoto, Sharadh Ramaswamy, Shaun Lind-
say, Shaun Lindsay, Sheng Feng, Shenghao Lin,
Shengxin Cindy Zha, Shishir Patil, Shiva Shankar,
Shuqiang Zhang, Shuqiang Zhang, Sinong Wang,
Sneha Agarwal, Soji Sajuyigbe, Soumith Chintala,
Stephanie Max, Stephen Chen, Steve Kehoe, Steve
Satterfield, Sudarshan Govindaprasad, Sumit Gupta,
Summer Deng, Sungmin Cho, Sunny Virk, Suraj
Subramanian, Sy Choudhury, Sydney Goldman, Tal
Remez, Tamar Glaser, Tamara Best, Thilo Koehler,
Thomas Robinson, Tianhe Li, Tianjun Zhang, Tim
Matthews, Timothy Chou, Tzook Shaked, Varun
Vontimitta, Victoria Ajayi, Victoria Montanez, Vijai
Mohan, Vinay Satish Kumar, Vishal Mangla, Vlad
Ionescu, Vlad Poenaru, Vlad Tiberiu Mihailescu,
Vladimir Ivanov, Wei Li, Wenchen Wang, Wen-
wen Jiang, Wes Bouaziz, Will Constable, Xiaocheng
Tang, Xiaojian Wu, Xiaolan Wang, Xilun Wu, Xinbo
Gao, Yaniv Kleinman, Yanjun Chen, Ye Hu, Ye Jia,
Ye Qi, Yenda Li, Yilin Zhang, Ying Zhang, Yossi Adi,
Youngjin Nam, Yu, Wang, Yu Zhao, Yuchen Hao,
Yundi Qian, Yunlu Li, Yuzi He, Zach Rait, Zachary
DeVito, Zef Rosnbrick, Zhaoduo Wen, Zhenyu Yang,
Zhiwei Zhao, and Zhiyu Ma. 2024. The llama 3 herd
of models. Preprint, arXiv:2407.21783.
Stephen Grossberg. 1982. How does a brain build a
cognitive code? In Studies of Mind and Brain, pages
1–52. Springer.
Dan Hendrycks, Collin Burns, Steven Basart, Andy Zou,
Mantas Mazeika, Dawn Song, and Jacob Steinhardt.
2021. Measuring massive multitask language under-
standing. In International Conference on Learning
Representations.
Gary Klein. 1998. Sources of Power: How People Make
Decisions. MIT Press.
Jing Yu Koh, Robert Lo, Lawrence Jang, Vikram
Duvvur, Ming Chong Lim, Po-Yu Huang, Graham
Neubig, Shuyan Zhou, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and
Daniel Fried. 2024a. Visualwebarena: Evaluating
multimodal agents on realistic visual web tasks. An-
nual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics, 62.
Jing Yu Koh, Stephen McAleer, Daniel Fried, and Rus-
lan Salakhutdinov. 2024b. Tree search for language
model agents.
Aman Madaan, Niket Tandon, Prakhar Gupta, Skyler
Hallinan, Luyu Gao, Sarah Wiegreffe, Uri Alon,
Nouha Dziri, Shrimai Prabhumoye, Yiming Yang,
Sean Welleck,
Bodhisattwa Prasad Majumder,
Shashank Gupta, Amir Yazdanbakhsh, and Peter
Clark. 2023. Self-refine: Iterative refinement with
self-feedback. ArXiv, abs/2303.17651.
Jiayi Pan, Yichi Zhang, Nicholas Tomlin, Yifei Zhou,
Sergey Levine, and Alane Suhr. 2024. Autonomous
evaluation and refinement of digital agents. Confer-
ence on Language Modeling.
Joon Sung Park, Joseph C. O’Brien, Carrie J. Cai,
Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and Michael S.
Bernstein. 2023. Generative agents: Interactive sim-
ulacra of human behavior. Proceedings of the 36th
Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software
and Technology.
David Rolnick, Arun Ahuja, Jonathan Schwarz, Timo-
thy P. Lillicrap, and Greg Wayne. 2019. Experience
replay for continual learning. Advances in neural
information processing systems, 32.
Stuart J. Russell and Peter Norvig. 1995.
Artificial
Intelligence: A Modern Approach. Prentice Hall.
Tom Schaul, John Quan, Ioannis Antonoglou, and David
Silver. 2016. Prioritized experience replay. Interna-
tional Conference on Learning Representations.
Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Beck Labash, Ashwin
Gopinath, Karthik Narasimhan, and Shunyu Yao.
2023. Reflexion: language agents with verbal re-
inforcement learning. In Neural Information Pro-
cessing Systems.
Mohit Shridhar, Xingdi Yuan, Marc-Alexandre Cote,
Yonatan Bisk,
Adam Trischler,
and Matthew
Hausknecht. 2021. {ALFW}orld: Aligning text and
embodied environments for interactive learning. In
International Conference on Learning Representa-
tions.
Paloma Sodhi, S. R. K. Branavan, Yoav Artzi, and Ryan
McDonald. 2024. Step: Stacked llm policies for web
actions. Conference on Language Modeling.
Hongjin Su, Ruoxi Sun, Jinsung Yoon, Pengcheng Yin,
Tao Yu, and Sercan Ö. Arık. 2025. Learn-by-interact:
A data-centric framework for self-adaptive agents in
realistic environments. Preprint, arXiv:2501.10893.
Guanzhi Wang, Yuqi Xie, Yunfan Jiang, Ajay Man-
dlekar, Chaowei Xiao, Yuke Zhu, Linxi Fan, and An-
ima Anandkumar. 2024a. Voyager: An open-ended
embodied agent with large language models. Trans-
actions on Machine Learning Research.
Zora Zhiruo Wang, Jiayuan Mao, Daniel Fried, and
Graham Neubig. 2024b. Agent workflow memory.
ArXiv.
12

--- PAGE 13 ---
Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten
Bosma, brian ichter, Fei Xia, Ed H. Chi, Quoc V Le,
and Denny Zhou. 2022. Chain of thought prompt-
ing elicits reasoning in large language models. In
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems.
Tianbao Xie, Siheng Zhao, Chen Henry Wu, Yitao Liu,
Qian Luo, Victor Zhong, Yanchao Yang, and Tao Yu.
2024a. Text2reward: Reward shaping with language
models for reinforcement learning. In The Twelfth In-
ternational Conference on Learning Representations.
Tianbao Xie, Fan Zhou, Zhoujun Cheng, Peng Shi, Lu-
oxuan Weng, Yitao Liu, Toh Jing Hua, Junning Zhao,
Qian Liu, Che Liu, Zeyu Liu, Yiheng Xu, Hongjin
SU, Dongchan Shin, Caiming Xiong, and Tao Yu.
2024b. Openagents: An open platform for language
agents in the wild. In First Conference on Language
Modeling.
Yiheng Xu, Hongjin Su, Chen Xing, Boyu Mi, Qian
Liu, Weijia Shi, Binyuan Hui, Fan Zhou, Yitao Liu,
Tianbao Xie, Zhoujun Cheng, Siheng Zhao, Ling-
peng Kong, Bailin Wang, Caiming Xiong, and Tao
Yu. 2023. Lemur: Harmonizing natural language and
code for language agents. International Conference
on Learning Representations.
Jianwei Yang, Hao Zhang, Feng Li, Xueyan Zou, Chun-
yuan Li, and Jianfeng Gao. 2023.
Set-of-mark
prompting unleashes extraordinary visual grounding
in gpt-4v.
Shunyu Yao, Howard Chen, John Yang, and Karthik
Narasimhan. 2022. Webshop: Towards scalable real-
world web interaction with grounded language agents.
Advances in neural information processing systems,
Datasets and Benchmarks Track, 35.
Shunyu Yao, Dian Yu, Jeffrey Zhao, Izhak Shafran,
Thomas L. Griffiths,
Yuan Cao,
and Karthik
Narasimhan. 2023a. Tree of thoughts: Deliberate
problem solving with large language models. ArXiv,
abs/2305.10601.
Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak
Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao. 2023b.
React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language
models. International Conference on Learning Rep-
resentations.
Andrew Zhao, Daniel Huang, Quentin Xu, Matthieu Lin,
Y. Liu, and Gao Huang. 2023. Expel: Llm agents are
experiential learners. ArXiv, abs/2308.10144.
Longtao Zheng, R. Wang, and Bo An. 2023. Synapse:
Trajectory-as-exemplar prompting with memory for
computer control. In International Conference on
Learning Representations.
Andy Zhou, Kai Yan, Michal Shlapentokh-Rothman,
Haohan Wang, and Yu-Xiong Wang. 2024a. Lan-
guage agent tree search unifies reasoning, acting, and
planning in language models. In Forty-first Interna-
tional Conference on Machine Learning.
Shuyan Zhou, Frank F. Xu, Hao Zhu, Xuhui Zhou,
Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar, Xianyi Cheng, Tianyue
Ou, Yonatan Bisk, Daniel Fried, Uri Alon, and Gra-
ham Neubig. 2024b.
Webarena: A realistic web
environment for building autonomous agents. Inter-
national Conference on Learning Representations.
A
Appendix
A.1
CER prompts
Here we provide detailed prompts for each module
in CER. Figure 3 and 4 show the system prompts
for distillation modules, while Figure 5 and 6 are
system prompts for retrieval modules.
A.2
Experience examples
We provide experiences examples for WEBARENA
and VISUALWEBARENA here.
These natural
language experiences are programmatically trans-
formed from the structured experiences stored in
the experience buffer and will be added to the sys-
tem prompt of the model when solving tasks. The
examples are shown in Figure 7 and 8.
A.3
Self-guided exploration prompt
As mentioned in section A.5, we prompt a lan-
guage model, i.e., GPT-4o, here to explore diverse
actions in the environment and collect the corre-
sponding trajectories. We limit the max steps to 30
and sample 10 trajectories. The instruction part of
the prompt is shown in Figure 9.
A.4
Human annotated tasks for WEBARENA
As stated in section 4.1.1, we asked individuals un-
familiar with WEBARENA to design a few common
tasks for each website in WEBARENA and asked
them to annotate the oracle trajectory for each task.
The number of training tasks varies across web-
sites, ranging from five to ten, and accounts for
approximately 5% of the test set. The full list of
task instructions for each website is as follows:
A.4.1
Shopping Admin
• How many customers expressed they were im-
pressed by the product
• Tell me the best-selling products each year
from 2022 to now
• Change the street address of the order with ID
300 to 790 Harvard Square
• Tell me the number of canceled orders in total.
Tell me the users who have canceled orders
ever
13

--- PAGE 14 ---
• Tell me the customer who made the most or-
ders during Jan 2022
• Tell me the month when there are the most
orders in 2022
• Modify the product Atlas fitness tank L blue’s
stock quantity to 80
• Tell me Sophia Kim’s email address
• Tell me the number of pending reviews in total
• How does Merrie feel about the Antonia tank?
A.4.2
Shopping
• How many complete orders are there in Au-
gust 2022
• How many items have I bought in total in Sep
2022
• What is the size of pancakes I bought on April
5, 2022
• What is the price of the most expensive tooth-
paste
• What is the price of the cheapest coffee
• I want to buy some energy drinks now, help
me find the blueberry flavor ones and a pack
of 24.
• Are there any out-of-stock orders there?
• Go to my first completed order in history
• Go to the bread & bakery page.
• Find the V8 energy drink and tell me the num-
ber of reviews of it about “good taste”
A.4.3
Gitlab
• Tell me the title of an issue with a label about
bugs and the top priority in the repo “admin-
istrate”
• Directly type everything during filtering
• Who made the latest commit in repo “Arduino-
Json”
• Tell me how many merge requests I need to
review
• Maybe need to tell the agent I am ByteBlaze?
• Tell me what is the license of repo “chinese-
colors”
• What is the number of members in repo “css-
selector”
• Create a private project from iOS template
with project name “abc”
• Create an issue with “Setup problems” as the
title in repo “ArduinoJson”
• Who has the most contribution to project “xs-
sor2”
• Assign “Support linking to an accessibility
statement” issue inside my a11y-webring.club
repo to Rohan
• What is the highest number of stars a reposi-
tory has ever received on GitLab?
A.4.4
Map
• What is the walking time from Friend Center to
Frist Campus Center at Princeton University?
• Tell me whether I should walk or drive to Frist
Campus Center to get there faster from Friend
Center at Princeton University?
• How long does it take to go from Princeton
University to where Independence Hall lies by
driving?
• Find details about the Independence Hall.
• Show me the list of hospitals close to Prince-
ton University.
A.4.5
Forum
• Find the title of the most commented post in
forum ’history’.
• Find the title of the most controversial post of
all time in forum ’Paterson’
• Go to the user’s profile who made the comment
"What are you doing in a deep learning sub?"
• Upvote the comment of the current user
which replies to ’Maybe there’s just something
wrong with me.’ by HedleyLamarrrr
• Reply to the first comment of the post titled
’It’s the only logical explanation’ with ’lol’
14

--- PAGE 15 ---
Table 9: Success rates (SR) of different settings with
different offline data source on the Forum tasks split of
the WebArena.
Offline data source
SR
Baseline
-
22.8
Offline
human annotations
33.3
self-guided explorations
31.6
Online
-
37.7
Hybrid
human annotations
41.2
self-guided explorations
35.1
A.5
Offline data sources
In section 4.1.1, CER uses human annotated data
for offline learning. We conduct offline and of-
fline + online experiments on the Forum tasks split
of WebArena with two sources of offline training
trajectories: from human demonstrations or from
self-guided explorations to investigate their effects.
For the human annotation data, We use the same
tasks as in section 4.1.1. The details can be found
in section A.4. For the random exploration data,
we prompt a language model to propose diverse ac-
tions at each step and collect the final exploration
trajectories. The details of prompts and tasks can
be found in A.3 and A.4. The overall results are
shown in Table 9. Both training sources improve
the performance over the baseline in the offline
setting. Notably, with five human annotations as
the training set, the performance of offline + online
learning surpasses the original online learning. To
understand how offline and online learning syner-
gize with each other, we take task 31 as an example:
the agent is asked to get the count of comments that
have received more downvotes than upvotes for the
user who made the latest post on the photoshopbat-
tles forum. In online settings, the agent does not
know how to sort the posts on the Forum website ei-
ther because this task is at the beginning, and it has
not learned many experiences yet. However, from
the training set, CER distilled the page summary of
the forums page where all forums are displayed and
also the skill of sorting the list of posts. Aware of
the existence of the forums page, the agent knows
to click the "forums" button to navigate to the list
of forums. After that, it is inspired by the skill and
sorts the posts correctly. It finishes the task suc-
cessfully with dynamics and skills distilled from
the training set.
Although in the offline setting, both training
sources help the agent outperform the baseline, of-
fline + online settings with self-guided explorations
perform even worse than the online-only setting.
We analyzed the results and found that the trajecto-
ries collected through such explorations are highly
unstructured and noisy. The exploration agent can
jump from one action to another unrelated one. So,
the distillation module can hardly distill useful pat-
terns from it. So, the distilled experiences may
even mislead the agent sometimes.
In real-world scenarios, high-quality human-
annotated training data is hard to collect, so online
learning is still important and meaningful in most
cases. It would be interesting to explore the poten-
tial of CER with more high-quality human-labelled
trajectories. The negative impact of the training set
derived from explorations also indicates that goal-
oriented trajectory matters for CER because it has
more structured, continuous, and relatively mean-
ingful action sequences rather than unordered small
pieces.
15

--- PAGE 16 ---
You will be given the state-action trajectory of a user interacting with a webpage and the overall goal of the trajectory. You need
to summarize the useful pages and pair it up with the corresponding URLs.
Output format:
<URL>
the URL of page 1
</URL>
<think>
think step by step like in the examples and summarize the page
</think>
<page-summary>
the brief summary of page 1, following the format:
Name: name page
Description: descriptions
Usages: usages
</page-summary>
<URL>
the URL of page 2
</URL>
<think>
think step by step like in the examples and summarize the page
</think>
<page-summary>
the brief summary of page 2, following the format:
Name: name page
Description: descriptions
Usages: usages
</page-summary>
...
# Examples
## Example 1
Overall goal of the trajectory: Go to r/books forum.
Current website: Reddit
Existing summarized pages:
Page 1: Profile page
Description: it shows the user’s profile information.
Usages: view or modify user’s profile information.
URL: https://www.example.com/profile
Human user trajectory: [neglected here]
## Output:
<URL>
https://www.example.com/forums
</URL>
<think>
From the content of the page, it shows a list of forums, I can summarize it to Forum page. The website is Reddit so this page can
be used to navigate to different forums.
</think>
<page-summary>
Name: Forums page; Description: it shows a list of different forums.; Possible usages: navigate to different forums.
</page-summary>
IMPORTANT NOTES you should absolutely follow:
1. DO NOT include any other words except url, think and page summary as the format stated above.
2. Follow the example to think and summarize the page.
3. You should only summarize once for each unique URL.
4.
Check existing pages before generating, do not summarize pages that have already been summarized, instead, use
"Summarized before" in the steps.
5. Focus on the main content of the page and may ignore the modifications made by the user when generating the summary.
Figure 3: System message for dynamics distillation module in CER
16

--- PAGE 17 ---
You will be given the state-action trajectory of a user interacting with a webpage and the overall goal of the trajectory.
You need to summarize skills from the trajectory.
Skills are a subset of actions that the user takes to achieve a sub-goal.
You should break the overall goal into sub-goals and summarize each sub-goal as a skill.
Represent the non-fixed elements (input text, button strings) and non-fixed words (e.g. a specific forum name / user name; an
option) with descriptive variable names as shown in the example.
Output format:
<think>
think step by step
</think>
<skill>
skill1 name here.
</skill>
<steps>
The steps of the skill1 here.
</steps>
<think>
think step by step
</think>
<skill>
skill2 name here.
</skill>
<steps>
The steps of the skill2 here.
</steps>
...
# Examples
## Example 1
Overall goal: I want to get the cheapest product in the Cabinets, Racks & Shelves category
Current website: current website
Existing skills:
Skill 1: Sort products by sort criterion
1. To sort the products by sort criterion, I need to click on the "Sort by" dropdown menu.
“‘click(sort by id)“‘
2. To sort the products by sort criterion, I need to select the sort criterion option from the "Sort by" dropdown menu.
“‘click(sort criterion id)“‘
Human user trajectory: [neglected here for length]
##Output: [neglected here for length]
IMPORTANT NOTES you should absolutely follow:
1. DO NOT include any other words except skills and steps as the format stated above.
2. Check existing skills before generating; do not summarize skills that have already been summarized; instead, use "Summarized
before" in the steps.
3. You should break the overall goal into sub-goals and summarize each sub-goal as a skill.
Figure 4: System message for skills distillation module in CER
17

--- PAGE 18 ---
You will be given a goal of a task to be executed on a website and a list of urls and the corresponding page summary to choose
from.
You need to select the pages that most possibly need to be visited to achieve the goal.
You should break the task down into a few steps so that you can select the pages that can help most in each step.
IMPORTANT: You should select not more than max skills pages!
Output format:
<think>
think step by step. Break the task down into a few steps and then select pages
</think>
<selected-pages>
id: the id number (the number at the beginning) of page 1; name: page 1 name
id: the id number (the number at the beginning) of page 2; name: page 2 name
...
</selected-pages>
# Examples
## Example 1
Task goal: Upvote the hottest post in r/books
Current website: website descriptions
Shortcuts to choose from:
id: 1; name: Forums page; description: It shows a list of different forums; possible usages: navigate to different forums; url:
https://www.example.com/forums
id: 2; name: Profile page; description: It shows the information of current user; possible usages: Check or modify the information
of the current user; url: https://www.example.com/profile
id: 3; name: Submission page; description: It provides a few text boxes to fill in to submit a new post; possible usages: Submit
new posts; url: https://www.example.com/submission
id: 4: name: Subscribed forums page; description: It provides a list of subscribed forums; possible usages: check or navigate to
subscribed forums; url: https://www.example.com/subscribed
## Output 1:
<think>
The goal is to upvote the hottest post in r/books. The user needs to navigate to the r/books page first or go to forums to find the
r/books page. Then the user needs to find the hottest post in the r/books page. So the useful pages from the shortcuts are Forums
page
</think>
<selected-pages>
id: 1; name: Forums page
</selected-pages>
Figure 5: System message for dynamics retrieval module in CER
18

--- PAGE 19 ---
You will be given a goal of a task to be executed on a website and a list of skills to choose from.
You need to select the skills that can help most in achieving the goal.
You should break the task down into a few steps so that you can select the skills that can help most in each step.
IMPORTANT: You should select not more than max skills skills!
Output format:
<think>
think step by step. Break the task down into a few steps and then select skills
</think>
<selected-skills>
id: the id number (the number at the beginning) of skill 1; name: skill 1 name
id: the id number (the number at the beginning) of skill 2; name: skill 2 name
...
</selected-skills>
# Examples
## Example 1
Task goal: Upvote the hottest post in r/books
Current website: website descriptions
Skills to choose from:
Skill 1: Navigate to forums
1. Click on the "Forums" menu item.
“‘click(forums id)“‘
2. Click on the specific forum name.
“‘click(forum name id)“‘
Skill 2: Submit a new post
1. Type the post title in the title text box.
“‘type(title text box id, "Post Title")“‘
2. Type the post content in the content text box.
“‘type(content text box id, "Post Content")“‘
3. Click on the "Submit" button.‘
“click(submit button id)“‘
Skill 3: Sort posts by sort criterion
1. Click on the "Sort by" dropdown menu.
“‘click(sort by dropdown id)“‘
2. Select the sort criterion option from the "Sort by" dropdown menu.
“‘click(sort criterion id)“‘
Output:
<think>
The goal is to upvote the hottest post in r/books. The user needs to navigate to the r/books page first or go to forums to find the
r/books page. Then the user needs to find the hottest post in the r/books page. So the useful skills from the shortcuts are Navigate
to forums, Sort posts by hotness
</think>
<selected-skills>
id: 1; name: Navigate to forums
id: 3; name: Sort posts by hotness
</selected-skills>
Notes:
1. Some skills might not be consistent with the current task but it is still useful to refer to, e.g. write a post to express happiness
is useful in a task to write a post to express sadness.
Figure 6: System message for skills retrieval module in CER
19

--- PAGE 20 ---
# Environment dynamics (common pages to navigate to from previous experience):
## Dynamics 1: Forums page
### Forums page contents: it shows a list of different forums.
### Potential usages: navigate to different forums.
### URL: http://localhost:9999/
...
# Skills (common workflows summarized from previous experience):
## Skill 1: Edit profile biography
### Steps:
1. Navigate to the Edit Biography page.
“‘goto(’http://localhost:9999/user/username/edit biography’)“‘
2. Fill in the biography text area with the new biography content.
“‘fill(biography text area id, ’new biography content’)“‘
3. Click on the save button to update the biography.
“‘click(save button id)“‘
...
Figure 7: Experience snippet example on WEBARENA
# Environment dynamics (common pages to navigate to from previous experience):
## Dynamics 1: Video Games category page
### Video Games category page contents: This page lists products that are within the "Video Games" category, including
accessories, consoles, and other related products
### Potential usages: Browse and purchase video game-related products.
### URL:http://localhost:7770/video-games.html
...
# Skills (common workflows summarized from previous experience):
## Skill 1: Sort search results by {sort criterion}
### Steps:
### 1. Open the sort dropdown menu by clicking on the sort dropdown button.
“‘click({sort dropdown button id})“‘
2. Select the "{sort criterion}" option from the sort dropdown menu.
“‘select_option({sort dropdown button id}, {sort criterion})“‘
...
Figure 8: Experience snippet example on VISUALWEBARENA
# Instructions: Your objective is to discover diverse and interesting tasks (that a human might give to an agent) by interacting
with the webpage through these actions. You’ve executed the following actions, and observed the following webpage states
[observations and other information are neglected here]
Figure 9: The instruction part of prompt for random explore agent
20
