--- PAGE 1 ---
PersonaAgent: Bridging Memory and Action for Personalized LLM Agents
Weizhi Zhang1, 2 *, Xinyang Zhang1, Chenwei Zhang1, Liangwei Yang2, Jingbo Shang1, 3,
Zhepei Wei1, 4, Henry Peng Zou2, Zijie Huang1, Zhengyang Wang1, Yifan Gao1,
Xiaoman Pan1, Lian Xiong1, Jingguo Liu1, Philip S. Yu2, Xian Li1
1 Amazon Stores Foundational AI, 2 University of Illinois Chicago,
3 University of California San Diego, 4 University of Virginia
wzhan42@uic.edu
Abstract
Large Language Model (LLM) empowered
agents have recently emerged as advanced
paradigms that exhibit impressive capabilities
in a wide range of domains and tasks. Despite
their potential, current LLM agents often adopt
a one-size-fits-all approach, lacking the flexi-
bility to respond to users’ varying needs and
preferences. This limitation motivates us to
develop PersonaAgent, the first personalized
LLM agent framework designed to address ver-
satile personalization tasks. Specifically, Per-
sonaAgent integrates two complementary com-
ponents: a personalized memory module that
includes episodic and semantic memory mech-
anisms; a personalized action module that en-
ables the agent to perform tool actions tailored
to the user. At the core, the persona (defined
as unique system prompt for each user) func-
tions as an intermediary: it leverages insights
from personalized memory to control agent ac-
tions, while the outcomes of these actions in
turn refine the memory. Based on the frame-
work, we propose a test-time user-preference
alignment strategy that simulate the latest n
interactions to optimize the persona prompt,
ensuring real-time user preference alignment
through textual loss feedback between simu-
lated and ground-truth responses. Experimen-
tal evaluations demonstrate that PersonaAgent
significantly outperforms other baseline meth-
ods by not only personalizing the action space
effectively but also scaling during test-time real-
world applications. These results underscore
the feasibility and potential of our approach in
delivering tailored, dynamic user experiences.
1
Introduction
For a long time, humanity has pursued the ambi-
tious goal of creating artificial intelligence capable
of matching or surpassing human-level cognitive
capabilities (Turing, 2009), thereby effectively as-
sisting, augmenting, and enhancing human activ-
*Work done during the internship at Amazon
ities across numerous domains. This pursuit has
been driven by two fundamental principles: achiev-
ing superior intelligence (Bubeck et al., 2023;
Wooldridge and Jennings, 1995; Phan et al., 2025)
and enhancing personalization (Rafieian and Yoga-
narasimhan, 2023; Kirk et al., 2024) as shown in
Figure 1. Towards superior intelligence, large lan-
guage models (LLMs), such as GPT (Achiam et al.,
2023), Claude (Anthropic, 2024), and LLaMa (Tou-
vron et al., 2023), have revolutionized various do-
mains, demonstrating emergent capabilities in rea-
soning (Wei et al., 2022), language comprehen-
sion (Achiam et al., 2023), and instruction follow-
ing (Ouyang et al., 2022).
Beyond standalone LLMs, LLM-empowered
agents (Luo et al., 2025) represent a paradigm shift,
integrating external tools (Qin et al., 2024; Zhang
et al., 2025b; Wei et al., 2025), memory mecha-
nisms (Huang et al., 2026; Zhang et al., 2026), and
goal-directed reasoning (Yao et al., 2023b,a) to en-
hance their utility and autonomy. These agents
move closer to human-like intelligence, capable
of performing complex tasks and interacting with
users more naturally and effectively. However,
to truly harness the potential of these intelligent
systems in everyday human contexts, it must be
capable of adapting tailored behaviors and inter-
actions to cater to different users (Fischer, 2001).
Despite their impressive versatility, existing LLMs
and agents, primarily trained on generic large-scale
datasets (Achiam et al., 2023; Anthropic, 2024;
Touvron et al., 2023) or armed with general action
tools (Yao et al., 2023b; Schick et al., 2023), in-
herently lack the capacity to dynamically utilize
the user personal data and adapt to evolving prefer-
ences unique to each user.
Personalization, therefore, emerges as a critical
factor for enabling agents to deliver more relevant
responses, foster deeper user engagement, and es-
tablish trust through tailored interactions (Bick-
more and Picard, 2005; Zhang et al., 2025a,c). As
arXiv:2506.06254v2  [cs.AI]  27 May 2026

--- PAGE 2 ---
Figure 1: Design principles for personal intelligence and four representative frameworks. Note that personalized
LLM agents perform personal-level alignment, whereas the others achieve only human-level alignment or merely
store personal information. A full agent execution case of personalized LLM agent is detailed in Appendix K.
Table 1 highlights, achieving effective personaliza-
tion intelligence can be measured from four critical
perspectives: agentic intelligence, real-world appli-
cability, personal data utilization, and preference
alignment. Yet, balancing these dimensions simul-
taneously remains a fundamental challenge. Early
efforts for aligning LLMs with human preferences,
such as supervised fine-tuning (Zhang et al., 2023)
and reinforcement learning from human feedback
(RLHF) (Schulman et al., 2017; Rafailov et al.,
2023), have improved the naturalness of instruction-
following behaviors for generalized human prefer-
ence but fall short in individual user preference
alignment and personal data utilization. Recent
advances, such as user-specific fine-tuning (Tan
et al., 2024b,a), enable individual-level personal-
ization but face real-world application challenges
due to their computational complexity, which in-
creases dynamically with large-scale users and
demands frequent model updates. Alternatively,
non-parametric personalization workflows (Salemi
et al., 2024b,a; Richardson et al., 2023), utilize
external personalized data but rely on fixed work-
flows with limited data retrieval capabilities. Con-
sequently, they fail to provide personalization in
complex scenarios that demand continuous adapta-
tion and holistic user understanding.
In this work, we propose PersonaAgent, the
first agentic framework for various personaliza-
tion tasks. Our approach advances personalization
along two key dimensions: effective utilization
of personalized data and enhanced alignment with
user preferences and intentions, as illustrated in Fig-
ure 1. PersonaAgent incorporates a personalized
memory module that combines episodic memory
for capturing detailed, context-rich user interac-
tions and semantic memory for generating stable,
abstracted user profiles. Complementing this, the
personalized action module takes memory insights
to dynamically tailor the agent’s actions and tools,
including memory retrieval/update, and personal-
ized search/reasoning. Central to this system is the
persona, a unique system prompt for each user serv-
ing as an intermediary that continuously evolves
by integrating user-data-driven memory to guide
agent actions and refining the memory based on
the action results. The major advantage over gen-
eral LLM agent is that the persona will enforce
personalization over the action space and guide
the action decision in every step. To improve user
preference modeling and real-time adaptability, we
introduce a novel test-time user-preference align-
ment strategy, simulating recent interactions to op-
timize the persona prompt through textual loss op-
timization (Yuksekgonul et al., 2025). This unified
framework uniquely addresses the limitations of ex-
isting approaches, delivering intelligent, scalable,
and dynamic personalization suitable for diverse

--- PAGE 3 ---
Approach Categories
Agentic
Real-world
Personal Data
Preference
Intelligence
Applicability
Utilization
Alignment
Human-Preference Aligned
✗
✓✗
✗
✓✗
User-Specific Fine-Tuning
✗
✗
✓✗
✓✗
Personalized LLM Workflow
✓✗
✓✗
✓✗
✓
General LLM Agent
✓
✓
✓✗
✓✗
Personalized LLM Agent (ours)
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓: fully covered, ✓✗: partially covered, ✗: not covered at all.
Real-world applicability: enabled by real-world action execution and scalability across a large user base.
Personal data utilization: fully utilize user data in both textual space and action space for model inference.
User preference alignment: this requires individual-level and real-time user preference alignment.
Table 1: Comparison among representative approaches for personalization intelligence
real-world applications. We validate our approach
through comprehensive experiments across four
personalization tasks in different domains, demon-
strating superior performance compared to other
personalization and agentic baselines. Through ab-
lation studies, we investigate the significance of
individual components. Furthermore, we validate
the effectiveness of test-time preference alignment
through persona analysis, including case studies
with distribution visualization and examine test-
time scaling effects of the user-alignment strategy
in the PersonaAgent. The contribution of this paper
is summarized as follows:
• We introduce PersonaAgent, the first personal-
ized agent framework for versatile personaliza-
tion tasks within a unified memory-action design.
• We propose user-specific persona for the agent
as the intermediary to bridge the gap between de-
signed personalized memory and action modules,
achieving personalization over action spaces.
• To further approximate the user behavior, we pro-
pose a novel test-time user preference alignment
strategy via persona optimization to seamless
adapt to the user with real-time update.
• We demonstrate that PersonaAgent with test-time
alignment achieves state-of-the-art results on var-
ious personalized decision making tasks over dif-
ferent personalization and agentic baselines.
2
Methodology
2.1
PersonaAgent Framework
As in Figure 1, PersonaAgent extends general LLM
agent architectures by incorporating user-specific
personalization via two complementary modules,
including personalized memory and action, inter-
connected through a dynamically evolving persona.
This design enables the agent to adapt its behavior
based on each individual’s context and preferences,
yielding more coherent and tailored interactions.
The Definition of “Persona”
A persona is a structured representation that
unifies persistent user-specific memory (e.g.,
long-term preferences) and explicit agent in-
structions (e.g., tool usage guidelines), form-
ing the unique system prompt for each user
that governs all the user–agent interactions.
Episodic Memory
To overcome the limitations
of LLM in modeling long-horizon user behav-
ior, episodic memory retains fine-grained, tem-
porally grounded user experiences, enabling the
agent to reason about what happened, when,
and in what context (Dickerson and Eichenbaum,
2010). In PersonaAgent, episodic memory records
fine-grained, time-stamped user interactions to sup-
port context-aware personalization. Inspired by
cognitive memory theory (Tulving et al., 1972), we
maintain for each user u an episodic buffer
Du =

(qi, rgt
i , mi)
	Nu
i=1,
(1)
where qi is a past query, rgt
i the corresponding true
user response, mi auxiliary metadata (e.g., times-
tamp, session context), and Nu is the total number
of interactions. Upon receiving a new query q∗,
its embedding hq∗= fenc(q∗) is computed and
compared to stored memory events embeddings
hi = fenc(Du
i ). The top-K most similar memo-
ries,
Ru(q∗) = TopK
i∈[1,Nu]
sim(hq∗, hi),
(2)
are retrieved and used to ground the agent’s next
response, thereby preserving alignment and consis-
tency with the user’s behavior history.

--- PAGE 4 ---
Semantic Memory
To support scalable and sta-
ble user-level personalization beyond accumulat-
ing event-level interactions, semantic memory is
designed to capture and consolidate abstract user
traits that persist across time and contexts (Tulving
et al., 1972). Unlike episodic memory, which cap-
tures detailed personal experiences linked to par-
ticular times, semantic memory explicitly focuses
on generalizing user-centric knowledge, encapsu-
lating consistent characteristics and preferences
derived from repeated interactions. In PersonaA-
gent, semantic memory abstracts and consolidates
stable user traits, such as enduring preferences and
long-term goals, into a compact profile that persists
across sessions. Formally, we define a summariza-
tion function fs that integrates the episodic memory
events into a coherent profile:
Pu = fs
 St, Du
,
(3)
where St is the task-based summarization prompt.
This profile Pu serves as a long-term user knowl-
edge base, ensuring that the agent’s behavior re-
mains aligned with the user’s established charac-
teristics even as individual events are not recalled
from the episodic memory.
Personalized Actions
We consider the setting of
an agent interacting with an environment to assist
a particular user to solve tasks. At each time step t,
the agent receives an observation ot ∈O from the
environment and selects an action at ∈A based on
its policy π(at|ct). Different from general LLM-
based agents adopting general tools A and fixed
policies π, this personalized action module governs
how the agent selects and parametrizes its actions
in service of the user. At each time step t, the
agent observes ot ∈O and, conditioned on the
context including actions and observations ct =
(o1, a1, . . . , ot−1, at−1, ot) and the current persona
P, determines action at according to
at ∼πP
 · | ct

,
at ∈ˆ
A.
(4)
We augment the fundamental action space ˆ
A =
A ∪D with tools to access personalized user data
and histories D. The persona P modulates the
policy πP , thereby tailoring both general tools
(e.g., web search) and personalized operations (e.g.,
memory retrieval) to the specific user.
Algorithm 1 Test-Time User Preference Alignment
1: Input: Test User data D, Initial persona P
2: Output: Optimized persona P ∗
3: procedure OPTIMIZATION(Dbatch, P)
4:
Initialize empty lists for loss gradients ˆ∇
5:
for each (q, ˆr, rgt) in Dbatch do
6:
Compute ∇←LLMgrad(q, ˆr, rgt)
7:
Add loss gradient/feedback ∇to ˆ∇
8:
end for
9:
Gradient update P ∗←LLMupdate( ˆ∇, P)
10:
return updated persona P ∗
11: end procedure
12: for iteration = 1 to E do
13:
Obtain batch Dbatch from user data D
14:
Add agent responses to Dbatch
15:
P ∗←OPTIMIZATION(Dbatch, P)
16: end for
2.2
Test-Time User Preference Alignment
To achieve individual-level user preference op-
timization in real-world deployment, we design
test-time alignment mechanism that dynamically
adapts the agent’s decisions and tool usage to each
specific user. In particular, we optimize the per-
sona prompt by simulating recent interactions and
minimizing textual discrepancies between simu-
lated agent responses and user ground-truth re-
sponses. Given n recent user interaction batch data
Dbatch = {(qj, ˆrj, rgt
j )}n
j=1, where qj is query, ˆrj
is agent response, and rgt
j is the ground-truth re-
sponses, we optimize the persona P for each itera-
tion via text gradients (Yuksekgonul et al., 2025)
using a textual loss function L:
P ∗= arg min
P
n
X
j=1
L(ˆrj, rgt
j |qj),
(5)
where ˆrj is simulated responses generated by the
agent conditioned on the persona P.
As shown in Algorithm 1, the optimization in-
volves iteratively simulating agent responses, com-
puting the textual feedback loss, and updating
the persona prompt using textual gradient opti-
mization.
While the set
ˆ
A remains fixed, the
agent’s behavior emerges to the personalized policy
πP ∗(at|ct) which leverages the optimized persona
P ∗to choose optimal actions at ∈A and corre-
sponding action parameters such as search query.
This iterative optimization ensures the persona con-
tinuously approximates individual user preferences
and intentions, enabling adaptive, personalized ap-
plication scenarios.
The textual optimization
and prompt can be found in Appendix B and Ap-
pendix C. Additionally, the alignment process is
conducted asynchronously with user instructions
and does not affect response latency (Appendix L).

--- PAGE 5 ---
Non-Personalized
Personalized LLM
General Agent PersonaAgent
Dataset
Metrics
Prompt
ICL
RAG
PAG
ReAct MemBank
LaMP-1: Personalized
Citation Identification
Acc. ↑
0.772
0.780
0.715
0.837
0.837
0.862
0.919
F1 ↑
0.771
0.766
0.714
0.837
0.853
0.861
0.918
LaMP-2M: Personalized
Movie Tagging
Acc. ↑
0.387
0.283
0.427
0.430
0.450
0.470
0.513
F1 ↑
0.302
0.217
0.386
0.387
0.378
0.391
0.424
LaMP-2N: Personalized
News Categorization
Acc. ↑
0.660
0.388
0.742
0.768
0.639
0.741
0.796
F1 ↑
0.386
0.145
0.484
0.509
0.381
0.456
0.532
LaMP-3: Personalized
Product Rating
MAE ↓
0.295
0.277
0.313
0.339
0.313
0.321
0.241
RMSE ↓
0.590
0.543
0.713
0.835
0.590
0.582
0.509
Table 2: The performance comparison of PersonaAgent with baselines including non-personalized, personalized
LLM workflow, and general agents on four personalized decision-making tasks.
3
Experiments
3.1
Experimental Settings
Baselines & Experimental Details
We com-
pare PersonaAgent with a comprehensive set of
baselines across three major categories:
non-
personalized methods, personalized workflow ap-
proaches, and general-purpose agentic systems.
Non-personalized models include direct prompt-
ing, as well as in-context learning (ICL) (Liu et al.,
2022) that prepends a few-shot demonstration of ex-
amples into the prompt without explicit modeling
of user preferences. Personalized workflow meth-
ods include retrieval-based models RAG (Salemi
et al., 2024b), and PAG (Richardson et al., 2023),
which introduces profile-augmented generation be-
yond RAG. In addition, we benchmark against two
prominent general agent baselines: ReAct (Yao
et al., 2023b), which integrates tool use and rea-
soning via interleaved action planning, and Mem-
Bank (Zhong et al., 2024), which introduces an
explicit long-term memory module to support task
generalization. Unless otherwise specified, all mod-
els are evaluated using Claude-3.5 Sonnet (An-
thropic, 2024) under a unified evaluation pipeline
with identical inputs and output formats, ensuring
a fair comparison. For PersonaAgent, the persona
initialization prompt is detailed in Appendix D, and
the personalized action and tool implementations
are provided in Appendix E. Further experimental
details can be found in Appendix F.
Benchmarks & Datasets
We evaluate Person-
aAgent on the LaMP (Salemi et al., 2024b) bench-
marks and mainly use four decision-making tasks
to assess the effectiveness of personalized agents
in diverse personalization domains. Specifically,
the evaluation consists of: (1) Personalized Cita-
tion Identification (LaMP-1), a binary classification
task where agents determine which paper should be
cited to a user-specific context when drafting a pa-
per; (2) Personalized Movie Tagging (LaMP-2M),
a multi-classification task involving movie tagging
most aligned to user preferences; (3) Personalized
News Categorization (LaMP-2N), which requires
categorizing news article based on user interests;
and (4) Personalized Product Rating (LaMP-3), a
multi-classification task for predicting numeric rat-
ings (1-5) grounded in historical user-item inter-
actions including ratings. Beyond the agent evalu-
ations on decision-making tasks, we also present
the text generation tasks, including Personalized
News Headline Generation (LaMP-4) and Person-
alized Scholarly Title Generation (LaMP-5) in Ap-
pendix G and Appendix H.
3.2
Overall Performance
As shown in Table 2, PersonaAgent achieves the
best performance across all four decision-making
tasks, outperforming non-personalized, personal-
ized, and agentic baselines. On LaMP-1 (Cita-
tion Identification), LaMP-2M (Movie Tagging),
and LaMP-2N (News Categorization), where suc-
cess depends on capturing topic-level user interests,

--- PAGE 6 ---
LaMP-1: Personalized
Citation Identification
LaMP-2M: Personalized
Movie Tagging
LaMP-2N: Personalized
News Categorization
LaMP-3: Personalized
Product Rating
Variants
Acc. ↑
F1 ↑
Acc. ↑
F1 ↑
Acc. ↑
F1 ↑
MAE ↓
RMSE ↓
PersonaAgent
0.919
0.918
0.513
0.424
0.796
0.532
0.241
0.509
w/o alignment
0.894
0.893
0.487
0.403
0.775
0.502
0.259
0.560
w/o persona
0.846
0.855
0.463
0.361
0.769
0.483
0.277
0.542
w/o Memory
0.821
0.841
0.460
0.365
0.646
0.388
0.348
0.661
w/o Action
0.764
0.789
0.403
0.329
0.626
0.375
0.375
0.756
Table 3: Ablation study of different components of PersonaAgent.
PersonaAgent substantially improves over RAG-
4, PAG-4, and MemBank, indicating its superior
ability to model nuanced user intent via memory
and persona alignment. Note that when few-shot
examples are irrelevant to the user preference, ICL
often underperforms compared to direct prompt-
ing, underscoring the importance of personalization
techniques for user-specific tasks. In the LaMP-3
(Product Rating) task, which challenges user un-
derstanding by requiring personalized numeric
predictions from user descriptions, PersonaAgent
achieves the lowest MAE and RMSE, demonstrat-
ing that its test-time alignment mechanism effec-
tively generalizes to personalized rating scenarios.
In contrast, both other personalized workflows and
general-purpose agents fail to outperform direct
prompting. These results highlight the effective-
ness of integrating personalized memory, action,
and persona prompt optimization for dynamic and
fine-grained personalization across domains.
3.3
Ablation Study
To assess the contribution of each module within
PersonaAgent, we conduct an ablation study across
all four LaMP tasks. As shown in Table 3, remov-
ing the test-time alignment module leads to a no-
ticeable drop in performance across the board, con-
firming its critical role in adapting to real-time user
preferences. Omitting the persona prompt, thereby
removing the centralized controller between mem-
ory and actions, results in further degradation, es-
pecially in F1 scores for classification tasks (e.g., a
drop from 0.893 to 0.855 on LaMP-1), suggesting
its importance for bridging memory-driven insights
and agent behavior. Removing the personalized
memory module has a more pronounced effect on
LaMP-2N and LaMP-3, indicating its key role in
modeling historical user context. Finally, remov-
ing the action module leads to a significant per-
formance drop across all tasks, highlighting that
reasoning alone is insufficient, adaptive tool usage
guided by personalized data is essential for effec-
tive decision-making. Overall, each component of
PersonaAgent contributes substantially to its suc-
cess, and the complete system delivers the strongest
and most balanced performance.
3.4
Persona Analysis
To better understand the impact of test-time align-
ment on persona for user modeling, we visual-
ize the optimized persona embeddings using t-
SNE (Van der Maaten and Hinton, 2008) on LaMP-
2M. In Figure 2, each point corresponds to a
learned persona after the test-time user preference
alignment, and we highlight three representative
users (A, B, C) alongside the initial system prompt
template. The learned personas are well-separated
in the latent space, suggesting that the optimization
procedure effectively captures user-specific traits.
User A and B, for instance, both focus on historical
and classic films, and their prompts reflect simi-
lar semantic distributions. User C, on the other
hand, displays clear divergence, with interests in
sci-fi, action, and book-to-film adaptations, em-
phasizing literary context in responses. Note that,
due to space limitations, only partial personas are
presented here; the full versions are available in Ap-
pendix I. These qualitative differences, emerging
from test-time user preference alignment, confirm
that the persona opmization mechanism enables
the agent to evolve beyond general behavior in-
structions and adapt to rich, fine-grained user pref-
erences. Beyond that, the complete Jaccard simi-
larity matrix of all learned personas is provided in
Appendix J.
3.5
Test-Time Scaling
Achieving effective personalization in PersonaA-
gent relies significantly on various scaling factors

--- PAGE 7 ---
Initial System Prompt:
STRICT RULES: when using tools, always:
1. Think step-by-step about what
information you need.
2. MUST use at least TWO tools to answer
the question.
...
  Persona for User A:
- Extensive knowledge of classic and cult films
- Interest in historical films, documentaries, and the intersection of politics, social
commentary, and cinema
- Analytical thinker with a focus on dark comedy and satirical films
...
Provide historically accurate and factual information, particularly for historical films.
  Persona for User B:
- Cinephile with deep knowledge of film history, genres, and iconic directors
- Appreciates cultural context and diversity in cinema
- Interested in classic, critically acclaimed, and influential films
- Enjoys analyzing the intersection of real-world issues and artistic representation
when responde:
Tailor responses to align with the user's interests in global cinema and historical films
  Persona for User C:
- Extensive knowledge of literature, popular book series, and their film adaptations
- Preference for sci-fi and action genres
- Likely to ask questions about book-to-film adaptations or literary elements in movies
When responding to queries:
1. Prioritize literary connections and book-to-film adaptations when relevant.
2. When searching, focus on:
   - Book-to-film adaptations, especially for popular series
   - Sci-fi and action genre elements
   - Underlying themes and genre-specific elements in movie descriptions
Figure 2: Persona case studies on the LaMP-2M movie tagging task.
during the alignment process. In this section, we
systematically explore the impact of scaling align-
ment batch samples, alignment iterations, and re-
trieved memory on LaMP-2M task.
Scaling alignment batch samples
Larger align-
ment batch sizes of n, i.e., using more recent in-
teraction samples for each optimization iteration,
result in improved alignment quality. As batch size
increases, the model benefits from a more compre-
hensive snapshot of recent user behavior, which
leads to better persona refinement and stronger per-
sonalization performance.
Scaling alignment iterations
We observe that
increasing the number of alignment iterations leads
to consistent gains in both accuracy and F1 score
up to around 3 iterations, after which performance
plateaus or slightly declines. This indicates that a
small number of update steps is sufficient for effec-
tive preference alignment, allowing PersonaAgent
to remain computationally efficient while adapting
quickly at test time.
Scaling retrieved memory
Retrieving more
memory entries for alignment and generation
significantly enhances performance, suggesting
that richer user context strengthens the ground-
ing of both reasoning and response generation.
These improvements validate the importance of
episodic memory retrieval in dynamically shaping
the agent’s behavior to match evolving user prefer-
ences.
3.6
Effects of base LLM capability
To evaluate the robustness of PersonaAgent across
different foundation models, we vary the underly-
ing LLM backbone using Mistral-Small (Mistral
AI team, 2024b), Mistral-Large (Mistral AI team,
2024a), Claude-3.5 (Anthropic, 2024), and Claude-
3.7 (Anthropic, 2025). As shown in Figure 4, Per-
sonaAgent consistently outperforms all baselines
regardless of the base model’s capability. Notably,
even with small models like Mistral-Small, Per-
sonaAgent achieves strong gains over prompting,
RAG, PAG, and agentic methods including ReAct
and MemBank, highlighting the model-agnostic
improvement based on test-time user preference
alignment. As model capability increases, Person-
aAgent still maintains its lead, achieving 55.0%
accuracy with Claude-3.7, the highest across all
settings. These results demonstrate that the pro-
posed personalization framework scales effectively
with model intelligence, while still offering distinct
advantages in lower-resource LLM regimes.
3.7
Efficiency Analysis of PersonaAgent
Note that our test-time user-preference alignment is
executed asynchronously with users’ new instruc-
tions and triggered immediately after each user ses-
sion completes. As a result, persona optimization is
finalized before the subsequent session begins and
does not introduce additional latency to real-time
online interactions. In addition, we provide em-
pirical runtime comparisons across all LaMP tasks
in Appendix L, demonstrating that PersonaAgent

--- PAGE 8 ---
0
3
6
9 12 15
# of batch size n
0.45
0.49
0.53
0.57
Accuracy
Alignment Batch
PersonaAgent
MemoryBank
ReAct
0
1
2
3
4
5
# of iterations 
0.45
0.49
0.53
0.57
Alignment Iterations
PersonaAgent
MemoryBank
ReAct
0
1
2
3
4
5
# of interactions K
0.44
0.48
0.52
0.56
Retrieved Memory
PersonaAgent
MemoryBank
ReAct
0
3
6
9 12 15
# of batch size n
0.37
0.41
0.45
0.49
F1 Score
Alignment Batch
PersonaAgent
MemoryBank
ReAct
0
1
2
3
4
5
# of iterations 
0.37
0.41
0.45
0.49
Alignment Iterations
PersonaAgent
MemoryBank
ReAct
0
1
2
3
4
5
# of interactions K
0.35
0.39
0.43
0.47
Retrieved Memory
PersonaAgent
MemoryBank
ReAct
Figure 3: Test-time scaling effects on PerosnaAgent.
Mistral-Small
Mistral-Large
Claude-3.5
Claude-3.7
0
10
20
30
40
50
Accuracy / Percentile (%)
15.7
24.3
38.7
45.7
24.0
27.0
42.7
52.7
28.7
25.3
43.0
51.7
26.3
30.3
45.0
48.3
30.7
30.3
48.0
53.0
32.0
32.3
51.3
55.0
Prompting
RAG
PAG
ReAct
MemBank
PersonaAgent
Figure 4: Effects on LLM base model capability.
introduces only moderate overhead compared to
PAG, while remaining consistently more efficient
than other fully agentic frameworks such as ReAct
and MemoryBank, achieving a favorable trade-off
between personalization capability and practical
deployment efficiency.
4
Conclusion
In this paper, we introduce PersonaAgent, the
first personalized LLM agent framework for ver-
satile personalization tasks through a unified
memory-action architecture. PersonaAgent inte-
grates episodic and semantic memory modules with
personalized actions to deliver highly adaptive and
aligned user experiences. Within the framework,
we define the concept of persona: user-specific
system prompts dynamically refined via proposed
novel test-time user-preference alignment mecha-
nism. Extensive experiments across diverse person-
alization tasks demonstrate that PersonaAgent con-
sistently outperforms other SOTA baselines. Abla-
tion studies and persona analysis confirm the crit-
ical contributions of each framework component,
particularly highlighting the persona’s role in con-
necting memory insights and personalized actions.
Further evaluation on test-time scaling and cold-
start users illustrate PersonaAgent’s superiority to
capture nuanced, evolving user preferences when
scaling the inference cost with limited user context.

--- PAGE 9 ---
Limitations
Despite the strong performance and flexibility
across diverse personalization scenarios, our pro-
posed PersonaAgent exhibits potential limitations.
Its reliance on textual feedback for preference align-
ment may overlook implicit or multi-modal user
signals (e.g., emotional or visual cues). In addi-
tion, though we have avoided large-scale user data
training via test-time personalization, the inten-
sive use of personalized data introduces privacy
risks, highlighting the need for future work on
privacy-preserving mechanisms such as federated
learning (Zhang et al., 2021).
Acknowledgments
The authors appreciate the reviewers for their in-
sightful comments and suggestions. Prof. Philip
Yu is supported in part by NSF under grants III-
2106758, and POSE-2346158.
References
Mahyar Abbasian, Iman Azimi, Amir M Rahmani, and
Ramesh Jain. 2023. Conversational health agents: A
personalized llm-powered agent framework. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2310.02374.
Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama
Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni Aleman,
Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman,
Shyamal Anadkat, and 1 others. 2023. Gpt-4 techni-
cal report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774.
Amazon Web Services. 2023. Amazon bedrock. https:
//aws.amazon.com/bedrock/. Accessed: 2025-05-
16.
Anthropic. 2024.
Introducing claude 3.5 son-
net.
https://www.anthropic.com/news/
claude-3-5-sonnet. Accessed: 2025-05-15.
Anthropic. 2025.
Claude 3.7 sonnet and claude
code.
https://www.anthropic.com/news/
claude-3-7-sonnet.
Timothy W Bickmore and Rosalind W Picard. 2005.
Establishing and maintaining long-term human-
computer relationships.
ACM Transactions on
Computer-Human Interaction (TOCHI), 12(2):293–
327.
Sébastien Bubeck, Varun Chadrasekaran, Ronen Eldan,
Johannes Gehrke, Eric Horvitz, Ece Kamar, Peter
Lee, Yin Tat Lee, Yuanzhi Li, Scott Lundberg, and 1
others. 2023. Sparks of artificial general intelligence:
Early experiments with gpt-4.
Hongru Cai, Yongqi Li, Wenjie Wang, Fengbin Zhu,
Xiaoyu Shen, Wenjie Li, and Tat-Seng Chua. 2024.
Large language models empowered personalized web
agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.17236.
Harrison Chase. 2022.
Langchain:
A framework
for developing applications powered by language
models.
https://github.com/langchain-ai/
langchain. Accessed: 2025-05-16.
Ruizhe Chen, Xiaotian Zhang, Meng Luo, Wenhao
Chai, and Zuozhu Liu. 2024.
Pad: Personalized
alignment of llms at decoding-time. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.04070.
Bradford C Dickerson and Howard Eichenbaum. 2010.
The episodic memory system: neurocircuitry and dis-
orders. Neuropsychopharmacology, 35(1):86–104.
Gerhard Fischer. 2001.
User modeling in human–
computer interaction.
User modeling and user-
adapted interaction, 11:65–86.
Tiancheng Hu and Nigel Collier. 2024. Quantifying the
persona effect in llm simulations. In Proceedings
of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers),
pages 10289–10307.
Wei-Chieh Huang, Weizhi Zhang, Yueqing Liang,
Yuanchen Bei, Yankai Chen, Tao Feng, Xinyu Pan,
Zhen Tan, Yu Wang, Tianxin Wei, and 1 others.
2026.
Rethinking memory mechanisms of foun-
dation agents in the second half.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2602.06052.
Hannah Rose Kirk, Bertie Vidgen, Paul Röttger, and
Scott A Hale. 2024. The benefits, risks and bounds
of personalizing the alignment of large language
models to individuals. Nature Machine Intelligence,
6(4):383–392.
Hao Li, Chenghao Yang, An Zhang, Yang Deng, Xiang
Wang, and Tat-Seng Chua. 2024. Hello again! llm-
powered personalized agent for long-term dialogue.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.05925.
Zechen Li, Baiyu Chen, Hao Xue, and Flora D. Salim.
2025a. Zara: Zero-shot motion time-series analysis
via knowledge and retrieval driven llm agents. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2508.04038.
Zechen Li, Shohreh Deldari, Linyao Chen, Hao Xue,
and Flora D. Salim. 2025b. SensorLLM: Aligning
large language models with motion sensors for hu-
man activity recognition. In Proceedings of the 2025
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-
guage Processing, pages 354–379. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Jiachang Liu, Dinghan Shen, Yizhe Zhang, William B
Dolan, Lawrence Carin, and Weizhu Chen. 2022.
What makes good in-context examples for gpt-3?
In Proceedings of Deep Learning Inside Out (Dee-
LIO 2022): The 3rd Workshop on Knowledge Extrac-
tion and Integration for Deep Learning Architectures,
pages 100–114.

--- PAGE 10 ---
Junyu Luo, Weizhi Zhang, Ye Yuan, Yusheng Zhao,
Junwei Yang, Yiyang Gu, Bohan Wu, Binqi Chen,
Ziyue Qiao, Qingqing Long, and 1 others. 2025.
Large language model agent: A survey on method-
ology, applications and challenges. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2503.21460.
Mistral AI team. 2024a.
Mistral large.
https://
mistral.ai/news/mistral-large/.
Mistral AI team. 2024b.
Mistral small.
https://
mistral.ai/news/mistral-large/.
Long Ouyang, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida,
Carroll Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong Zhang,
Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, and 1
others. 2022. Training language models to follow in-
structions with human feedback. Advances in neural
information processing systems, 35:27730–27744.
Long Phan, Alice Gatti, Ziwen Han, Nathaniel Li,
Josephina Hu, Hugh Zhang, Chen Bo Calvin Zhang,
Mohamed Shaaban, John Ling, Sean Shi, and 1 oth-
ers. 2025. Humanity’s last exam. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2501.14249.
Yujia Qin, Shengding Hu, Yankai Lin, Weize Chen,
Ning Ding, Ganqu Cui, Zheni Zeng, Xuanhe Zhou,
Yufei Huang, Chaojun Xiao, and 1 others. 2024. Tool
learning with foundation models. ACM Computing
Surveys, 57(4):1–40.
Rafael Rafailov, Archit Sharma, Eric Mitchell, Christo-
pher D Manning, Stefano Ermon, and Chelsea Finn.
2023.
Direct preference optimization: Your lan-
guage model is secretly a reward model. Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, 36:53728–
53741.
Omid Rafieian and Hema Yoganarasimhan. 2023. Ai
and personalization. Artificial Intelligence in Market-
ing, pages 77–102.
Chris Richardson, Yao Zhang, Kellen Gillespie, Sudipta
Kar, Arshdeep Singh, Zeynab Raeesy, Omar Zia
Khan, and Abhinav Sethy. 2023. Integrating sum-
marization and retrieval for enhanced personaliza-
tion via large language models.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.20081.
Alireza Salemi, Surya Kallumadi, and Hamed Zamani.
2024a. Optimization methods for personalizing large
language models through retrieval augmentation. In
Proceedings of the 47th International ACM SIGIR
Conference on Research and Development in Infor-
mation Retrieval, pages 752–762.
Alireza Salemi, Sheshera Mysore, Michael Bendersky,
and Hamed Zamani. 2024b. Lamp: When large lan-
guage models meet personalization. In Proceedings
of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers),
pages 7370–7392.
Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Roberto Dessì, Roberta
Raileanu, Maria Lomeli, Eric Hambro, Luke Zettle-
moyer, Nicola Cancedda, and Thomas Scialom. 2023.
Toolformer: Language models can teach themselves
to use tools. Advances in Neural Information Pro-
cessing Systems, 36:68539–68551.
John Schulman, Filip Wolski, Prafulla Dhariwal,
Alec Radford, and Oleg Klimov. 2017.
Proxi-
mal policy optimization algorithms. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1707.06347.
Yunfan Shao, Linyang Li, Junqi Dai, and Xipeng Qiu.
2023.
Character-llm: A trainable agent for role-
playing. In Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,
pages 13153–13187.
Zhaoxuan Tan, Zheyuan Liu, and Meng Jiang. 2024a.
Personalized pieces: Efficient personalized large lan-
guage models through collaborative efforts. In Pro-
ceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Meth-
ods in Natural Language Processing, pages 6459–
6475.
Zhaoxuan Tan, Qingkai Zeng, Yijun Tian, Zheyuan Liu,
Bing Yin, and Meng Jiang. 2024b. Democratizing
large language models via personalized parameter-
efficient fine-tuning. In Proceedings of the 2024 Con-
ference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing, pages 6476–6491.
Hugo Touvron, Thibaut Lavril, Gautier Izacard, Xavier
Martinet, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Timothée Lacroix,
Baptiste Rozière, Naman Goyal, Eric Hambro, Faisal
Azhar, and 1 others. 2023. Llama: Open and effi-
cient foundation language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2302.13971.
Endel Tulving and 1 others. 1972. Episodic and seman-
tic memory. Organization of memory, 1(381-403):1.
Alan M Turing. 2009. Computing machinery and intel-
ligence. Springer.
Laurens Van der Maaten and Geoffrey Hinton. 2008.
Visualizing data using t-sne. Journal of machine
learning research, 9(11).
Noah Wang, Zy Peng, Haoran Que, Jiaheng Liu,
Wangchunshu Zhou, Yuhan Wu, Hongcheng Guo,
Ruitong Gan, Zehao Ni, Jian Yang, and 1 others.
2024a. Rolellm: Benchmarking, eliciting, and en-
hancing role-playing abilities of large language mod-
els. In Findings of the Association for Computational
Linguistics ACL 2024, pages 14743–14777.
Yancheng Wang, Ziyan Jiang, Zheng Chen, Fan Yang,
Yingxue Zhou, Eunah Cho, Xing Fan, Yanbin Lu,
Xiaojiang Huang, and Yingzhen Yang. 2024b. Rec-
mind: Large language model powered agent for
recommendation.
In Findings of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: NAACL 2024, pages
4351–4364.

--- PAGE 11 ---
Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten
Bosma, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc V Le, Denny Zhou,
and 1 others. 2022. Chain-of-thought prompting elic-
its reasoning in large language models. Advances
in neural information processing systems, 35:24824–
24837.
Zhepei Wei, Wenlin Yao, Yao Liu, Weizhi Zhang,
Qin Lu, Liang Qiu, Changlong Yu, Puyang Xu,
Chao Zhang,
Bing Yin,
and 1 others. 2025.
Webagent-r1: Training web agents via end-to-end
multi-turn reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2505.16421.
Michael Wooldridge and Nicholas R Jennings. 1995. In-
telligent agents: Theory and practice. The knowledge
engineering review, 10(2):115–152.
Wooseong Yang, Weizhi Zhang, Yuqing Liu, Yuwei
Han, Yu Wang, Junhyun Lee, and Philip S Yu. 2025.
Adaptive candidate retrieval with dynamic knowl-
edge graph construction for cold-start recommenda-
tion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.20773.
Shunyu Yao, Dian Yu, Jeffrey Zhao, Izhak Shafran,
Tom Griffiths, Yuan Cao, and Karthik Narasimhan.
2023a. Tree of thoughts: Deliberate problem solving
with large language models.
Advances in neural
information processing systems, 36:11809–11822.
Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak
Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao. 2023b.
React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language
models. In International Conference on Learning
Representations (ICLR).
Mert Yuksekgonul, Federico Bianchi, Joseph Boen,
Sheng Liu, Pan Lu, Zhi Huang, Carlos Guestrin,
and James Zou. 2025. Optimizing generative ai by
backpropagating language model feedback. Nature,
639(8055):609–616.
An Zhang, Yuxin Chen, Leheng Sheng, Xiang Wang,
and Tat-Seng Chua. 2024a. On generative agents
in recommendation. In Proceedings of the 47th in-
ternational ACM SIGIR conference on research and
development in Information Retrieval, pages 1807–
1817.
Chen Zhang, Yu Xie, Hang Bai, Bin Yu, Weihong Li,
and Yuan Gao. 2021. A survey on federated learning.
Knowledge-Based Systems, 216:106775.
Kai Zhang, Yangyang Kang, Fubang Zhao, and Xi-
aozhong Liu. 2024b. Llm-based medical assistant
personalization with short-and long-term memory co-
ordination. In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference
of the North American Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: Human Language Tech-
nologies (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 2386–2398.
Shengyu Zhang, Linfeng Dong, Xiaoya Li, Sen Zhang,
Xiaofei Sun, Shuhe Wang, Jiwei Li, Runyi Hu, Tian-
wei Zhang, Fei Wu, and 1 others. 2023. Instruction
tuning for large language models: A survey. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2308.10792.
Weizhi
Zhang,
Yuanchen
Bei,
Liangwei
Yang,
Henry Peng Zou, Peilin Zhou, Aiwei Liu, Yinghui
Li, Hao Chen, Jianling Wang, Yu Wang, and 1 others.
2025a. Cold-start recommendation towards the era of
large language models (llms): A comprehensive sur-
vey and roadmap. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.01945.
Weizhi Zhang, Yangning Li, Yuanchen Bei, Junyu Luo,
Guancheng Wan, Liangwei Yang, Chenxuan Xie,
Yuyao Yang, Wei-Chieh Huang, Chunyu Miao, and
1 others. 2025b. From web search towards agentic
deep research: Incentivizing search with reasoning
agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.18959.
Weizhi Zhang, Xiaokai Wei, Wei-Chieh Huang, Zheng
Hui, Chen Wang, Michelle Gong, and Philip S Yu.
2026. Memorycd: Benchmarking long-context user
memory of llm agents for lifelong cross-domain per-
sonalization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.25973.
Weizhi Zhang, Liangwei Yang, Wooseong Yang,
Henry Peng Zou, Yuqing Liu, Ke Xu, Sourav Medya,
and Philip S Yu. 2025c. Llminit: A free lunch from
large language models for selective initialization of
recommendation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.01814.
Wanjun Zhong, Lianghong Guo, Qiqi Gao, He Ye, and
Yanlin Wang. 2024. Memorybank: Enhancing large
language models with long-term memory. In Pro-
ceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelli-
gence, volume 38, pages 19724–19731.
A
Related Work
A.1
Parametric Personalization of LLMs
Early efforts to align LLMs with human pref-
erences primarily relied on supervised fine-
tuning (Zhang et al., 2023) and reinforcement learn-
ing from human feedback (RLHF) (Schulman et al.,
2017; Rafailov et al., 2023). These approaches
have successfully enabled more natural and human-
aligned instruction-following behavior but are still
constrained by a coarse, population-level prefer-
ence alignment. Moving toward personalized align-
ment, recent works (Chen et al., 2024) have be-
gun to define alignment objectives along dimen-
sions such as expertise, informativeness, and stylis-
tic preference. However, they still overlook the
rich variability in individual user preferences, lim-
iting their ability to support fine-grained, user-
specific alignment. More recent personalization
approaches, such as parameter-efficient fine-tuning
(PEFT) methods (Tan et al., 2024b,a), have made
considerable progress by enabling user-specific ad-
justments to model parameters. Yet, these methods
face significant scalability hurdles since their com-
putational complexity increases linearly with the
user base, severely limiting practicality in large-
scale deployments. Moreover, the necessity for

--- PAGE 12 ---
frequent re-tuning to incorporate new user inter-
actions exacerbates computational demands and
latency.
A.2
Personalization Workflow of LLMs
User profiling through defining character personas
for Large Language Models (LLMs) represents a
straightforward and intuitive personalization work-
flow. These approaches facilitates advanced and
natural LLM responses with role-playing capabili-
ties (Shao et al., 2023; Wang et al., 2024a; Hu and
Collier, 2024). However, capturing fine-grained,
dynamically evolving user-specific personas re-
mains an open challenge requiring further re-
search. Alternatively, personalized workflows such
as retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) (Salemi
et al., 2024b,a) and profile-augmented generation
(PAG) (Richardson et al., 2023) provide a non-
parametric route to personalization by incorporat-
ing external, personalized user data into model re-
sponses. However, these approaches typically fol-
low a fixed pipeline and rely on retrieving only
limited relevant interactions or trivial user data
summarization. This limitation prevents person-
alized workflows from achieving comprehensive
and adaptive personalization, particularly in com-
plex scenarios requiring holistic understanding and
continuous adaptation to user preferences and his-
torical behaviors.
A.3
Personalization of LLM Agents for
Specific Domains
Recent studies have developed LLM-powered per-
sonalized agents explicitly for particular domains.
For example, Li et. (Li et al., 2024) focus on long-
term dialogues with specially designed event mem-
ory modules, while personalized web agents (Cai
et al., 2024) integrate user-specific data and in-
structions primarily for web navigation tasks. In
the medical domain, LLM-based medical assis-
tant (Zhang et al., 2024b) employ short- and long-
term memory coordination specifically for health-
care interactions. Conversational health agents, ex-
emplified by openCHA (Abbasian et al., 2023),
leverage domain-specific knowledge integration
techniques but remain confined to health-related
dialogue contexts. In the health domain, ZARA (Li
et al., 2025a) enables adaptive understanding of
patient-specific signals through context-aware re-
trieval over time-series data and SensorLLM (Li
et al., 2025b) grounds on human-aligned semantics
from sensor data for individualized behavior inter-
pretation. In recommendation systems, generative
agents, including RecMind (Wang et al., 2024b)
and Agent4Rec (Zhang et al., 2024a), primarily
focus on utilizing external knowledge bases to im-
prove content recommendations. Their methodolo-
gies, while effective within the recommendation
context, lack flexibility for addressing diverse per-
sonalization tasks outside their designed domain.
These domain-specific methods significantly limit
the versatility and generalizability of personalized
LLM applications. In contrast, our proposed Per-
sonaAgent framework offers a versatile and adapt-
able approach suitable for various personalization
tasks across multiple domains.
B
Textual Gradient Optimization
This section provides a detailed illustration of
the optimization mechanism in TextGrad (Yuksek-
gonul et al., 2025), which forms the core of our
user-preference alignment framework.
Backpropagation
over
LLM
computation
graphs.
Consider a system composed of two
sequential large language model (LLM) calls:
Prediction = LLM(Prompt + Question),
(6)
Evaluation = LLM(EvalInst + Prediction). (7)
Textual gradient operator.
Here we define how
textual gradients are instantiated in practice. In-
stead of computing numeric derivatives, TextGrad
queries an LLM to produce structured natural-
language feedback:
∂L
∂x ≜∇LLM

x, y, ∂L
∂y

.
(8)
The corresponding LLM prompt is:
Here is a conversation with an LLM: {x
| y}.
Below are the criticisms on y: ∂L/∂y.
Explain how to improve x.
This operator produces a human-interpretable
critique that serves as a functional analogue to
∂L/∂x in classical backpropagation.
Textual Gradient Descent.
Once a variable-
level textual gradient is obtained, TextGrad updates
the variable via textual gradient descent (TGD):
xnew = TGD.step
 x, ∂L
∂x

.
(9)
The update is implemented via:

--- PAGE 13 ---
Below are the criticisms on x.
Criticisms: ∂L/∂x.
Incorporate the criticisms and produce
a new variable.
This step replaces classical gradient descent with
a language-model–driven rewrite operation. Each
TGD iteration consists of:
1. A forward pass to compute intermediate vari-
ables.
2. A backward pass where ∇LLM produces tex-
tual gradients.
3. A TGD update that rewrites variables to im-
prove the global objective.
General form.
For a general computation graph
G = (V, E), where each node v ∈V represents a
variable (typically unstructured text), each directed
edge (v, w) ∈E denotes that v is an input to a func-
tion fw that produces w, and Succ(v) denotes the
successor set of v, the textual gradient aggregation
is:
∂L
∂v =
[
w∈Succ(v)
∇fw

v, w, ∂L
∂w

.
(10)
Variable updates are then performed as:
v(t+1) = TGD.step

v(t),
∂L
∂v(t)

.
(11)
This design enables TextGrad to perform auto-
matic optimization over non-differentiable, black-
box LLM systems using natural-language feedback
as gradients.
C
Test-Time User Preference Alignment
Loss Gradient/Feedback Prompt
You are a meticulous and critical evaluator
of personalized AI agent responses.
Analyze the following and give the feedback
on how to improve the system prompt to align
with the user’s preferences.
Question: [Question]
Expected Answer: [Ground Truth]
Agent Response: [Response]
Your feedback should focus on how to adjust
the persona system prompt to tailor the
agent’s responses to the individual user’s
unique
characteristics.
Make
sure
the
feedback is concise and clear.
Tips:
1.
Explain on how to improve the search
keywords of tools for this user.
2.
Take
the
user’s
prior
interactions,
preferences,
and
any
personalization
aspects into consideration.
3.
Provide
explicit
description
for
user profile and preferences that is not
specific to this task.
Feedback:
Gradient Update Prompt
You
are
a
prompt
engineering
assistant
tasked with refining the personal agent
system prompts for improved user preference
alignment.
Current system prompt: [Current Persona]
Provided Feedback: [Aggregated Feedback]
Based
on
the
feedback
above,
generate
an updated system prompt that explicitly
highlights the user’s unique preferences.
Ensure
that
the
prompt
instructs
the
agent
to
align
its
responses
with
the
user’s preferences, including detailed user
profile or preferences. Please maintain a
helpful and clear tone in the system prompt.
New system prompt:
D
Persona Prompt Initialization
Initial System Prompt (Persona Initializa-
tion)
You are a helpful personalized assistant.
Take more than two actions to infer the
user preference and answer the question.
User summary: [Initial Semantic Memory]
STRICT RULES: when using tools, always:
1.
Think
step-by-step
about
what
information you need.
2. MUST use at least TWO tools to answer
the question.
3. Use tools precisely and deliberately and
try to get the most accurate information
from different tools.
4.
Provide clear, concise responses.
Do
not give explanation in the final answer.
E
Personalized Actions and Tools
Here, we detail two tool description utilized in Per-
sonaAgent. Note that we limit the number of tools:
one tool (Wikipedia search) for general informa-
tion access and one tool (episodic memory) for per-
sonal data retrieval since we want to highlight the

--- PAGE 14 ---
effectiveness of memory-action framework and the
test-time user-preference alignment over persona
rather the extra benefits from a variety of tools.
Wikipedia API for General Knowledge
Use this tool to get a brief summary from
Wikipedia about a specific topic.
Best
for:
getting
general
background
information,
learning
basic
facts,
and
understanding historical events or people.
Input: a clear, specific topic name (e.g.,
’Albert Einstein’, ’World War II’).
Output:
returns
a
concise
Wikipedia
summary.
Note: use precise topic names for better
results.
RAG API for Personalized Episodic Mem-
ory
Retrieve
top-k
relevant
items/histories
from
the
user
memory
using
RAG
(Retrieval-Augmented Generation).
Best
for:
finding
detailed
information
on
related
items,
answering
specific
questions
from
personal
data,
and
incorporating
user
preferences
into
the
final answer.
Input: a specific search query or question
about the content.
Output:
relevant
interaction
histories
from the user memory.
Note:
more
specific
queries
yield
more
accurate results.
Requirement: must use this tool at least
once to answer the question.
F
Experimental Details
We implement all agentic method on top of
LangChain (Chase, 2022). For the tools includ-
ing the wiki search and memory retrieval, the de-
scription prompts are detailed in Appendix E. We
follow PAG (Richardson et al., 2023) to summa-
rize the user behaviors into user profile for our
initial semantic memory. All baselines are faith-
fully adapted to the LaMP benchmark following
their original papers to ensure fair and consis-
tent comparison. In particular, prompting (Salemi
et al., 2024b), RAG (Salemi et al., 2024b), and
PAG (Richardson et al., 2023) are implemented us-
ing the official LaMP experimental protocols, while
agentic baselines (ReAct (Yao et al., 2023b) and
MemBank (Zhong et al., 2024)) are implemented
under a unified tool interfaces. In the test-time
user-preference alignment, we set alignment batch
size n as 3 and alignment iterations as 1 to en-
sure fast adaptation and achieve a tradeoff between
the performance and efficiency. Following the set-
ting in LaMP (Salemi et al., 2024b), the number
of retrieved memories is set as 4 by default. To
ensure reproducibility, we fix the LLM sampling
temperature at 0.1, rendering outputs effectively
deterministic. All experiments were conducted on
Amazon Bedrock (Amazon Web Services, 2023)
with a single run.
For agentic baselines, we en-
able Wikipedia search tools where applicable, and
for MemoryBank we follow the original memory
mechanism while adapting the stored memory units
to LaMP-style interaction events to ensure compat-
ibility with the dataset and fairness in comparison.
For the performance evaluation, we follow the of-
ficial LaMP benchmark protocol across the four
decision-making and two text generation tasks, us-
ing the prescribed metrics. For the classification
tasks (LaMP-1, LaMP-2M and LaMP-2N), we re-
port both accuracy and F1 score. For the regres-
sion task (LaMP-3), we report mean absolute er-
ror (MAE) and root mean squared error (RMSE),
while for generation task (LaMP-4 and LaMP-5),
we evaluate with ROUGE-1/ROUGE-L.
G
Datasets and Tasks
We adopt LaMP as the primary evaluation bench-
mark because it is currently the only widely
adopted dataset that provides real user data with
longitudinal, time-ordered interaction histories
over multiple personalization tasks. This uniquely
enables the evaluation of user-centric preference
alignment, which is the central research objective
of this paper. We view the interactive dialogue eval-
uation using datasets that provide real-user, long-
session conversational histories as an important
future direction, but outside the intended scope of
this work.
Following the data processing steps in (Tan et al.,
2024b), we underscore the importance of rich his-
torical user data in enabling effective personal-
ization. Accordingly, our test set consists of the
100 users with the most extensive activity histo-
ries, selected from the time-ordered version of the
LaMP (Salemi et al., 2024b) dataset. For each user,

--- PAGE 15 ---
the data is chronologically ordered and partitioned
into two subsets: a profile set representing their
historical behaviors, and a test set reserved for final
evaluation. We provide more details about the task
formulation for each dataset as follows:
• LaMP-1: Personalized Citation Identifica-
tion. This task evaluates a model’s ability to
predict which paper a researcher is more likely
to cite, framing citation recommendation as a
binary classification problem. For each interac-
tions sample, one real citation from the paper is
used as the positive candidate, while a negative
citation is sampled from the citing papers from
the other users in original training data.
• LaMP-2M: Personalized Movie Tagging.
This task measures a model’s capacity to as-
sign appropriate tags to movies based on an in-
dividual user’s unique tagging habits. For each
task instance, the model is provided with the
description of a movie, the user’s prior movie-
tag pairs as the user history, and must predict
which tag the user would assign. This setup
encourages the model to adapt to individual
tagging preferences, capturing the subjectivity
of how users interpret movie content.
• LaMP-2N: Personalized News Categoriza-
tion. The task is designed to assess how well
a model can categorize news articles while in-
corporating individual user preferences. The
dataset was refined by filtering out infrequent
labels. For each prediction instance, the model
receives an article and the author’s historical
profile to predict the article’s category.
• LaMP-3: Personalized Product Rating. This
task evaluates a model’s ability to predict how a
specific user would rate a product based on the
content of their review, conditioned on their
past reviewing behavior. Each task sample
presents a review text as input, with the model
expected to predict the user’s rating (from 1 to
5), treating this as a multi-class classification
task. The personalization signal can be derived
from the user’s past reviews and ratings, which
inform their writing style, sentiment expres-
sion, and rating tendencies, tailoring to each
user accordingly.
• LaMP-4: Personalized News Headline Gen-
eration. The task aims to generate headlines
for news articles reflecting distinct stylistic ten-
dencies of individual authors. For each task
instance, the model is provided with the con-
tent of a news article together with a series of
articles drafted by the author and must produce
a headline that aligns with the author’s style
and preference. This setup go beyond generic
summarization and adapt to personalized writ-
ing preferences.
• LaMP-5: Personalized Scholarly Title Gen-
eration. This task assesses a model’s ability
to generate research paper titles that reflect the
stylistic and research preference of individual
authors. Each instance provides the abstract of
a paper as input, along with personal data con-
sisting of the author’s historical abstract–title
pairs. The model must generate an appropriate
title for the paper that aligns with the author’s
prior title-writing patterns, testing the model’s
adaptability to personalized scholarly writing
styles.
H
Evaluation on Personalized Text
Generation
Across
both
LaMP-4
and
LaMP-5,
non-
personalized methods (Prompt, ICL) perform
the weakest, indicating that generic prompting
strategies are insufficient for capturing user-
specific writing patterns. Personalized workflow
models (RAG, PAG) improve performance by
incorporating profile information, but the gains
are relatively limited, particularly in the news
headline setting where stylistic variation is more
pronounced.
General-purpose agentic systems
(ReAct, MemBank) achieve competitive results,
suggesting that reasoning, search, and memory
mechanisms can partially support personalization
the text generation tasks, though they lack test-time
adaptation. PersonaAgent achieves the strongest
performance in both tasks, with especially notable
improvements. This demonstrates the effectiveness
of explicit persona modeling in capturing long-
term stylistic preferences and domain-specific text
generation.

--- PAGE 16 ---
Non-Personalized
Personalized LLM
General Agent PersonaAgent
Dataset
Metrics
Prompt
ICL
RAG
PAG
ReAct MemBank
LaMP-4: Personalized News
Headlines Generation
ROUGE-1. ↑
0.129
0.140
0.161
0.160
0.167
0.160
0.178
ROUGE-L ↑
0.118
0.127
0.145
0.143
0.150
0.142
0.166
LaMP-5: Personalized
Scholarly Title Generation
ROUGE-1 ↑
0.455
0.444
0.475
0.472
0.468
0.463
0.503
ROUGE-L ↑
0.384
0.380
0.424
0.413
0.407
0.399
0.434
Table 4: The performance comparison of PersonaAgent with baselines including non-personalized, personalized
LLM workflow, and general agents on two personalized text generation tasks.
I
Persona Case Study
Persona of User A
You are a highly personalized assistant
tailored
to
a
user
with
the
following
profile:
- Strong interest in film analysis, genre
classification, and cinematic themes
-
Preference
for
concise,
direct
communication
without
unnecessary
elaboration
- Appreciates nuanced genre classifications
and subgenres in media
-
Values
accuracy
and
precision
in
categorization tasks
- Extensive knowledge of classic and cult
films
-
Interest
in
historical
films,
documentaries,
and
the
intersection
of politics, social commentary, and cinema
- Analytical thinker with a focus on dark
comedy and satirical films
When responding:
1.
Prioritize
brevity
and
directness,
especially when explicitly requested.
2. Assume a high level of film knowledge
and use sophisticated film terminology when
appropriate.
3.
Provide
historically
accurate
and
factual
information,
particularly
for
historical films.
4.
Identify and categorize films based
on themes, plot elements, and overarching
narratives, not just explicit genre labels.
5. When using tools, always:
a.
Think
step-by-step
about
what
information you need.
b.
Use at least TWO tools to answer the
question.
c. Use tools precisely and deliberately to
get the most accurate information.
d.
Prioritize
film
databases,
critic
resources, and historical sources in your
searches.
6.
Tailor
your
responses
to
include
brief historical context when relevant, but
offer more detailed information only if
requested.
7.
Be prepared to suggest related films
or
documentaries
based
on
the
user’s
interests.
8.
Strictly
adhere
to
any
specific
instructions given by the user regarding
response format or content.
Remember, the user values efficiency and
accuracy in information retrieval. Provide
clear, concise responses without further
explanation
unless
asked.
Continuously
adapt your communication style based on
user feedback and previous interactions."
Persona of User B
You are a personalized assistant for a user
with the following profile:
- Cinephile with deep knowledge of film
history, genres, and iconic directors
-
Prefers
concise,
factual
responses
without unnecessary elaboration
-
Appreciates
cultural
context
and
diversity in cinema
-
Interested
in
classic,
critically
acclaimed, and influential films
-
Values
efficiency
in
information
retrieval
-
Enjoys
analyzing
the
intersection
of
real-world
issues
and
artistic
representation
When responding:
1. Provide direct, accurate answers without
additional explanations unless explicitly
requested.
2. Assume a high level of film knowledge
and use appropriate terminology.
3.
Prioritize
factual
information
from
reputable
film
criticism
sources
and
academic film studies.
4. Include brief references to film theory,
analysis, or cultural impact when relevant.
5.
Take
at
least
two
actions
using
different
tools
to
gather
and
verify
information.
6.
Use precise search terms related to
cinema, including specific directors, film
techniques, and genre classifications.

--- PAGE 17 ---
7.
Tailor responses to align with the
user’s
interests
in
global
cinema
and
historical films.
STRICT RULES:
1.
Always think step-by-step about what
information you need.
2. Use at least TWO tools to answer each
question.
3.
Use tools deliberately to obtain the
most accurate information.
4.
Provide clear, concise responses that
align with the user’s preferences.
5.
DO NOT give any further explanation
in the final answer unless specifically
requested.
Remember
to
consider
the
user’s
most
popular tag preference: dystopia."
Persona of User C
You are a highly personalized assistant for
a user with the following profile:
-
Adult
with
a
strong
interest
in
film
analysis and genre classification
-
Extensive
knowledge
of
literature,
popular
book
series,
and
their
film
adaptations
- Preference for sci-fi and action genres
-
Appreciates
concise,
direct
answers
without unnecessary explanations
-
Likely
to
ask
follow-up
questions
about book-to-film adaptations or literary
elements in movies
When responding to queries:
1. Provide brief, precise answers without
additional explanation unless specifically
requested.
2.
Prioritize
literary
connections
and
book-to-film adaptations when relevant.
3.
Use at least TWO tools (e.g., Wiki,
RAG) to gather accurate information. When
searching, focus on:
- Book-to-film adaptations, especially for
popular series
- Sci-fi and action genre elements
-
Underlying
themes
and
genre-specific
elements in movie descriptions
4. For movie tagging tasks:
-
Analyze
descriptions
for
key
elements
(plot, themes, settings) that correspond
to specific genres or tags.
- Provide only the most relevant single
tag,
prioritizing
literary
connections
when applicable.
-
Consider
sci-fi
and
action
elements
slightly more favorably, aligning with user
preferences.
5.
Assume
the
user
is
well-versed
in
popular
culture,
literature,
and
film.
Avoid stating the obvious.
6.
Be
prepared
to
engage
in
deeper
discussions
about
cinema
studies,
genre
theory,
or
literary
adaptations
if
prompted.
Remember
to
always
think
step-by-step
about what information you need and use
tools precisely to get the most accurate
information.
Your
goal
is
to
provide
valuable, concise responses that align with
the user’s sophisticated understanding of
film and literature.
J
Persona Similarity Matrix
The heatmap shows pairwise Jaccard similarities
between the personas inferred for each of the 100
users. Bright red values along the main diagonal
(1.0) indicate self-consistency for each user, while
the predominantly cool-blue off-diagonal entries
(similarities mostly ≤0.4) reveal minimal overlap
between different users’ profiles. This clear separa-
tion underscores the effectiveness of our test-time
preference-alignment mechanism in capturing and
preserving each individual’s unique persona.
Figure 5: Jaccard similarity of learned personas on
LaMP-2M.
K
Agent Full Execution
As shown in Figure 6, given optimized persona and
input query, the agent first conditions its behavior
on the persona prompt that encodes the user’s long-
term preferences (including semantic memory) and
strict personal decision rules. It then attempts to
resolve the task using general-world knowledge
(e.g., external knowledge bases) to identify a clear

--- PAGE 18 ---
interpretation. When general knowledge is insuffi-
cient or ambiguous, the agent explicitly falls back
to a personalized episodic memory retrieval, query-
ing the user’s past historically similar behaviors
and tagging decisions. The final decision is pro-
duced by reconciling all the observations with re-
trieved user-specific evidence, prioritizing person-
alized behavioral consistency when conflicts arise.
This loop enables robust, user-aligned decisions by
memory-grounded personalization.
L
Runtime and Latency Analysis
We further evaluate the practical efficiency of Per-
sonaAgent by reporting end-to-end inference la-
tency across all LaMP personalization tasks. Ta-
ble 5 summarizes the average runtime per test sam-
ple (in seconds), measured under a unified execu-
tion environment for all methods.
Task
PAG
ReAct
MemBank
PersonaAgent
LaMP-1
0.84
1.95
2.35
1.42
LaMP-2M
1.46
2.92
3.10
1.62
LaMP-2N
1.08
2.48
2.90
2.12
LaMP-3
1.58
3.10
3.34
1.98
Average
1.24
2.61
2.92
1.79
Table 5: Average runtime per sample (seconds) across
LaMP tasks. Lower is better.
Although absolute latency may vary depending
on task complexity, prompt length, and external
API conditions, the relative runtime ordering re-
mains consistent across all tasks: PersonaAgent
with simialr runtime of PAG are supiror to ReAct
and MemBank. These results indicate that Person-
aAgent introduces only a moderate overhead com-
pared to workflow-based personalization methods
such as PAG, while remaining substantially more
efficient than fully agentic baselines. In particular,
ReAct and MemBank incur higher latency due to
multi-step reasoning loops, repeated tool invoca-
tions, and redundant memory accesses. In contrast,
PersonaAgent leverages a user-aligned persona to
directly constrain the action space and guide deci-
sion making, reducing unnecessary exploration and
superfluous tool calls. This design enables more
confident and streamlined inference, achieving a
favorable balance between personalization effec-
tiveness and real-world deployment efficiency.
Data
Metric
PAG
ReAct MemBank PersonaAgent
LaMP-1
Acc ↑
0.772
0.802
0.789
0.845
F1 ↑
0.764
0.792
0.781
0.837
LaMP-2M Acc ↑
0.392
0.428
0.415
0.476
F1 ↑
0.328
0.361
0.349
0.407
LaMP-2N
Acc ↑
0.678
0.714
0.698
0.756
F1 ↑
0.438
0.468
0.452
0.509
LaMP-3
MAE ↓
0.341
0.328
0.332
0.301
RMSE ↓0.924
0.726
0.743
0.612
Table 6: Cold-start results with 10 interactions per user.
M
Cold-Start Robustness
To simulate realistic deployment scenarios where
user history is extremely limited (Zhang et al.,
2025c; Yang et al., 2025), we construct a controlled
cold-start setting based on the LaMP benchmark.
Specifically, we resample users and restrict each
user to 10 historical interactions. This setup re-
flects practical constraints in early-stage personal-
ization, where agents must infer user preferences
from sparse and limited user signals.
Table 6 presents the performance across four
representative LaMP tasks, covering classification,
tagging, categorization, and regression. Across
all tasks, PersonaAgent consistently achieves the
best performance, demonstrating strong robustness
under sparse supervision. Despite limited inter-
action history, PersonaAgent effectively captures
user preferences, suggesting that persona abstrac-
tion provides a stronger inductive bias than raw
memory retrieval. While MemoryBank improves
over standard agent baselines, it still underperforms
compared to PersonaAgent. This indicates that
explicit persona alignment by simulating the user
behavior is more effective than purely storing and
retrieving past interactions in cold-start scenarios.
The cold-start results validate that test-time per-
sona alignment combined with structured memory
abstraction is critical for enabling effective person-
alization under limited data. This makes Person-
aAgent particularly suitable for real-world deploy-
ment, where user history is often sparse and noisy.

--- PAGE 19 ---
Persona (System Prompt for the Agent):
You are an assistant to serve a user who strongly favors light-hearted, humor-driven narratives and fantasy
elements. The user prefers comedy-oriented interpretations when humor is present; frequently watches fantasy
stories ...
Strict Rules:
• Always prioritize the user’s historical tagging behavior over general genre definitions.
...
Instruction:
Which tag does the user categorize this movie into? tags: [sci-fi, . . . , classic] ...
Description: “A married workaholic, Michael Newman, gets a magical remote that allows him to bypass life’s
little distractions with increasingly hysterical results...”
Thought:
The movie involves a magical remote control, which could be interpreted as sci-fi, but the tone is clearly
exaggerated and humorous. I should first check more movie information.
Action: Wikipedia API for General Knowledge
Action Input: “A married workaholic gets a magical remote ...”
Observation:
No matching Wikipedia page is found for the provided description.
Thought:
The Wikipedia search did not return a relevant match, so general factual knowledge is insufficient. According
to the strict rules, I should rely on the user’s historical tagging behavior and personalized episodic memory to
resolve the ambiguity.
Action: RAG API for Personalized Episodic Memory
Action Input: “fantasy elements related to magical remote control”
Observation: Retrieved Top-K User Memory
Here are the past relevant user-tagged movies:
• “Intrepid young reporter, Tintin, and his loyal dog, Snowy . . . ” →action
• “After being set-up and betrayed by the man . . . ” →comedy
• “An interstellar teleportation device, found in Egypt . . . ” →sci-fi
• “A group of people are trapped in an elevator high above . . . ” →twist ending
Thought:
From the user’s historical tagging behavior, humorous and exaggerated scenarios are consistently labeled as
comedy, even when sci-fi elements are present. Given the dominance of humor in the current movie and the
strict rules, I should prioritize the comedy tag over the technical sci-fi label.
Final Answer:
comedy ✓
Figure 6: Step-by-step example of PersonaAgent full execution process in personalized movie tagging. The agent
first attempts to use Wikipedia for more general information, then switches to personalized episodic memory
and persona-guided reasoning to produce the user-aligned tag comedy. The persona optimization (test-time user
preference alignment as detailed in Algorithm 1 may follow up when the user provide their satisfaction feedback.
