--- PAGE 1 ---
Establishing Best Practices for Building Rigorous
Agentic Benchmarks
Yuxuan Zhu1∗
Tengjun Jin1
Yada Pruksachatkun
Andy Zhang2
Shu Liu3
Sasha Cui4
Sayash Kapoor5
Shayne Longpre6
Kevin Meng7
Rebecca Weiss8
Fazl Barez8,11
Rahul Gupta9
Jwala Dhamala9
Jacob Merizian10
Mario Giulianelli10
Harry Coppock10
Cozmin Ududec10
Jasjeet Sekhon4
Jacob Steinhardt7
Antony Kellermann1
Sarah Schwettmann7
Matei Zaharia3
Ion Stoica3
Percy Liang2
Daniel Kang1∗
1UIUC
2Stanford University
3University of California, Berkeley
4Yale University
5Princeton University
6MIT
7Transluce
8ML Commons
9Amazon
10UK AI Safety Institute
11University of Oxford
Abstract
Benchmarks are essential for quantitatively tracking progress in AI. As AI agents
become increasingly capable, researchers and practitioners have introduced agentic
benchmarks to evaluate agents on complex, real-world tasks. These benchmarks
typically measure agent capabilities by evaluating task outcomes via specific reward
designs. However, we show that many agentic benchmarks have issues in task setup
or reward design. For example, SWE-bench-Verified uses insufficient test cases,
while τ-bench counts empty responses as successful. Such issues can lead to under-
or overestimation of agents’ performance by up to 100% in relative terms. To make
agentic evaluation rigorous, we introduce the Agentic Benchmark Checklist (ABC),
a set of guidelines that we synthesized from our benchmark-building experience,
a survey of best practices, and previously reported issues. When applied to CVE-
Bench, a benchmark with a particularly complex evaluation design, ABC reduces
the performance overestimation by 33%.
1
Introduction
AI agents that integrate machine learning models with tools, memory, and knowledge are emerging
with the capability to solve complex problems [12, 25, 40, 68, 71, 84, 85]. To evaluate AI agents,
researchers and practitioners have built agentic benchmarks with realistic tasks to track progress and
assist decision-making [11, 22, 30, 37, 47, 59, 83, 86, 89, 93]. AI agents have exhibited impressive
performance on these benchmarks. For example, a GPT-4o-based agent resolves 35% of tasks on
τ-bench-Airline, a benchmark for tool-agent-user interaction [86]. As agentic benchmarks become
increasingly impactful in academia and industry, it is crucial to ensure these numbers can be trusted.
Agentic benchmarks differ fundamentally from traditional AI benchmarks. Multiple-choice datasets
(e.g., ImageNet [16] and MMLU [27]) evaluate models by their accuracy on categorical labels,
while text-generation benchmarks rely on automatic metrics (e.g., BLEU [60]). By contrast, success
is defined by completing end-to-end tasks in agentic settings. Therefore, an agent may perform
coherent reasoning, write code, and execute commands to produce a final outcome. Subsequently, the
performance of the agent is determined by comparing its final outcome with a ground-truth outcome,
using various methods, such as program testing and string matching [11, 30, 37, 47, 59, 83, 86, 89, 93].
∗{yxx404,ddkang}@illinois.edu
Preprint.
arXiv:2507.02825v5  [cs.AI]  7 Aug 2025

--- PAGE 2 ---
Unfortunately, many existing outcome-based evaluation methods of agentic benchmarks introduce
issues that can cause under- or overestimation of agent capabilities by up to 100% in relative terms,
compromising the validity of their findings [35, 46, 62, 80, 87]. For example, SWE-bench-Verified
challenges an agent to resolve GitHub issues, and considers the agent successful if the patch it
generates passes manually vetted unit tests [14]. However, recent work has shown that passing these
tests does not necessarily indicate that the issue is resolved, because unit tests can fail to capture
important edge cases. Consequently, 24% of the top 50 leaderboard positions are incorrect [31, 87]. In
addition, we find that in τ-bench, a trivial agent that returns empty responses is considered successful
on intentionally impossible tasks (e.g., changing a non-refundable ticket). This trivial agent achieves
a 38% success rate and outperforms a GPT-4o-based agent [86].
Although issues in evaluation rigor can significantly skew evaluation results, they are still frequently
overlooked in the current development, deployment, and analysis of agentic benchmarks. To better
understand this problem, we analyzed prior work on agentic benchmark pitfalls [35, 46, 62, 80, 87]
and 17 widely used agentic benchmarks (Table 3), such as SWE-bench-Verified [14], GAIA [47],
τ-bench [86], and WebArena [93]. Combining insights from the literature with our own experience
in developing benchmarks, we identified two major conditions of the validity of benchmark results:
• Outcome validity: the evaluation result (e.g., tests or checks) truly indicates task success. SWE-
bench-Verified fails here because an incorrect patch can still pass the test suite.
• Task validity: a task should be solvable if and only if the agent possesses the target capability.
Issues in task design or implementation often breaks task validity. For example, τ-bench allows a
trivial agent to pass 38% of tasks without knowledge of airline-ticketing rules.
Following prior work on analyzing AI and code benchmarks [10, 65], we formulate our insights into an
Agentic Benchmark Checklist (ABC) to assist benchmark developers and users in critically designing
and assessing agentic benchmarks. Using ABC, we assessed ten popular agentic benchmarks that
span the full range of agent capabilities, resulting in seven benchmarks with flaws in outcome validity,
seven with issues in task validity, and all with limitations in the result reporting. In addition to the
issues found in τ-bench-Airline, some other example issues we found are: (1) an agent can score
100% on SWE-Lancer [48] without resolving any tasks; (2) KernelBench [59] overestimates agents’
capabilities in generating correct kernel functions by 31% in absolute terms due to incomprehensive
fuzz testing; (3) WebArena [93] overestimates performance of agents by 5.2% due to various issues
in its string matching. To demonstrate ABC’s practical value, we applied it to improve CVE-Bench, a
complex, representative cybersecurity benchmark [96]. ABC reduced performance overestimation in
CVE-Bench by 33% in absolute terms, as confirmed by cybersecurity experts.
We summarize our contributions as follows:
1. We identified two significant threats in the evaluation rigor of agentic benchmarks: outcome
validity and task validity.
2. We developed an actionable checklist, ABC, to critically assess existing agentic benchmarks and
to establish best practices for future development.
3. We applied ABC to assess ten widely used agentic benchmarks and identified new evaluation
issues that cause estimation errors of agents’ performance by up to 100% in relative terms.
4. We provided a case study of using ABC to improve an agentic benchmark during development.
2
Related Work
Assessing AI Benchmarks. Benchmarks are fundamental in AI research and practice, serving as
key tools for measuring progress and identifying potential risks [21, 69]. However, maintaining
benchmark quality remains a persistent challenge. To address this, prior studies have assessed various
dimensions of AI benchmarks, including label quality and quantity [17, 18], standardized evaluation
protocols [41], construct validity [20, 64], data contamination [91], reproducibility [75], and practical
usage [24]. Even high-profile benchmarks, such as ImageNet [16], have faced issues related to data
bias and label noise [73]. With the advancement of large language models (LLMs), recent work has
proposed best practices for developing general or code-oriented benchmarks [10, 65]. Although these
existing studies provide important insights to our analysis, they primarily focused on multiple-choice
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
AI Agent
Agentic tasks
Task
descriptions
Environments
Tools
Task Outcome
- Textual responses
- Code
- Environment states
- ...
Benchmark evaluations
String matching
Testing
State matching
Customized
metrics
Results
Target
Capability
Task
Success
Positive
Results
Task Validity
Outcome Validity
Operational
Conceptual
Figure 1: Operational and conceptual processes of agentic evaluation. An agentic benchmark
measures the capability of AI agents via agentic tasks. It determines the success of a task by evaluating
the task outcomes. Establishing task validity (e.g., equivalence between the target capability and the
task success) and outcome validity (e.g., equivalence between the task success and positive evaluation
results) are keys to ensure rigorous agentic evaluation.
or generative tasks that do not require multistep reasoning, which present fewer ambiguities and
complexities than complex agentic benchmarks.
Benchmarking of AI Agents. Prior work has proposed agentic benchmarks across various domains,
including coding [30, 37, 48, 59], interacting with environments for a predefined target [83, 86, 93],
solving math problems [22, 39], and others [11, 47, 74, 89]. These tasks typically emulate real-
world challenge resolution, involving non-categorical outputs and multistep execution. Evaluating
AI agents in these tasks introduces a more complex design and implementation than traditional
benchmarks, including handling dynamic interactions between an agent and the environment and
grading unstructured responses, which increases the difficulty in ensuring rigorous evaluation.
Issues in Evaluating AI Agents. Existing analyses have identified evaluation issues in individual
agentic benchmarks [32, 34, 35, 62, 87]. In terms of the outcome validity, Kydlíˇcek and Gandenberger
[34] found that implicit assumptions on the answer formats lead to performance underestimation by
5.3%. Yu et al. [87] found that agents can pass evaluations without generating correct patches for
7.7% of tasks in the SWE-bench-Lite and 5.2% of tasks in the SWE-bench-Verified. In addition, prior
analysis found that the annotation noise in BIRD significantly affects the accuracy of performance
evaluation [62, 80]. In terms of task validity, the rate limit of the websites implemented in WebArena
prevented agents from resolving challenges [32]. Furthermore, Lange et al. [35] identified flaws in
the grading of KernelBench that allow agents to bypass correctness checks. However, none of them
develops an actionable and systematic guideline to assess agentic benchmarks.
3
Overview
In this section, we present an overview of our work. We first introduce a taxonomy of validity
issues in agentic benchmarks and then describe the process of our benchmark collection, checklist
development, and benchmark assessment. Finally, we release our code1 and build a website2 for
continuous development and future updates.
Taxonomy. We first identify and classify the primary challenges in rigorous agentic evaluation. In
Figure 1, we decompose the operational and conceptual process of agentic evaluation. An agentic
benchmark challenges an AI agent to finish a task in a specific environment with a given set of tools.
After several rounds of (inter-) actions, the AI agent presents a task outcome, which indicates whether
the task completion state. To automatically determine whether the task is successful, the agentic
benchmark develops customized methods based on the task requirements, such as string matching
[86, 92] and testing [30, 59].
Conceptually, an agentic evaluation is rigorous if and only if (1) the target capability is equivalent to
task success (i.e., task validity), and (2) the task success is equivalent to a positive evaluation result
1https://github.com/uiuc-kang-lab/agentic-benchmarks
2https://uiuc-kang-lab.github.io/agentic-benchmarks/
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
(i.e., outcome validity). However, agentic benchmark presents two unique challenges that makes
these two validity conditions difficult to hold:
1. Complex task setup: In addition to task descriptions as inputs, agentic benchmarks set up an
environment for agents to operate in and provide tools for agents to use.
2. Unstructured task outcome: Agentic benchmarks expect unstructured data as task outcomes, such
as textual responses, code, and file edits. Verifying the correctness of such outcomes are non-trivial
and requires specially designed methods.
First, improper task setup can lead to the violation of task validity. For instance, τ-bench includes
intentionally unattainable tasks (e.g., making changes to a non-refundable ticket), which agents are
supposed to recognize and reject [86]. Yet, a trivial agent that simply returns nothing is considered a
successful completion even though it cannot look up information or interpret ticket rules. Second,
failure to rigorously grade unstructured task outcome can break outcome validity. For example,
SWE-bench-Verified judges agent-generated patches by handwritten unit tests [14]. Since such tests
can be incomplete or not perfectly sound [87, 94], a patch that passes them may still be wrong. Task
validity breaks down for a different reason, often reflected as shortcuts or impossible tasks.
To help researchers identify and mitigate such problems in specific agentic benchmarks, we aim
to translate the two validity criteria into an actionable checklist. When a criterion cannot be fully
satisfied, the checklist also offers guidance on how to interpret and report the resulting scores.
Benchmark Collection. To develop the checklist, we collected a set of popular agentic benchmarks
as the corpus for our study. To emphasize common and representative issues, we focused on popular
agentic benchmarks used by top AI providers, including OpenAI, Anthropic, Amazon, Meta, Google,
xAI, Mistral, and DeepSeek, or those winning awards in peer-reviewed academic conferences. This
narrows our focus to a set of 17 agentic benchmarks (Table 3). We defer the details of our benchmark
collection to Appendix B.
Checklist Development. We first reviewed the collected benchmarks and surveyed AI agent
evaluation frameworks [1, 44, 45, 50] together with documented issues in agentic benchmarks
[32, 34, 35, 62, 87]. We then examined best practices for evaluating unstructured task outcomes
in related domains, such as software testing. Integrating these insights with our own experience in
benchmark development, we curated the Agentic Benchmark Checklist (ABC), which has three parts:
task validity, outcome validity, and benchmark reporting. We provide the source of each checklist
item in Appendix C.
Benchmark Assessment. We applied ABC to thoroughly assess ten selected benchmarks (Table 1).
We selected these benchmarks from the open-source set in Table 3, prioritizing their popularity and
ensuring all types of agent capabilities are covered. We assigned 1 point to each satisfied item and 0
otherwise. For each issue identified by the checklist, we designed experiments to validate the issue
and obtained quantitative results (Section 5). We defer detailed assessment results to Appendix D
and case studies to Appendix E.
4
ABC: Agentic Benchmark Checklist
In this section, we formulate our assessment framework into an actionable checklist (ABC). We
present the checklist items in terms of task validity, outcome validity, and benchmark reporting.
4.1
Assessing Task Validity
We propose guidelines for ensuring task validity. These checks uncover design or implementation
flaws that can create shortcuts, which causes false positive evaluation results, or lead to impossible
tasks, which causes false negative evaluation results.
Tool. External tools and functions can significantly extend the capabilities of AI agents. Existing
benchmarks provide two types of tools: self-hosted tools (e.g., Python, command-line tools) and
API-based tools (e.g., web services). For self-hosted tools, it is essential to explicitly specify the
correct tool or package versions in the prompt (T.1). In terms of API-based tools, ensuring service
4

--- PAGE 5 ---
Task Validity
Tool
T.1. Versions of all tools (e.g., Python) are clearly specified.
T.2. Required API tools are consistently accessible during evaluation.
T.3. Evaluation process terminates or handles errors appropriately if an 
API becomes inaccessible.
Env.
T.4. Residual data or state are fully cleared between runs.
T.5. Agent is completely isolated from any ground truth information.
T.6. Setup does not change over time (e.g., no live website).
Implementation
T.7. Annotated ground truth is verified for correctness.
T.8. Each task is verified to be solvable.
T.9. Benchmark includes an Oracle solver that can automatically solve 
all challenges.
T.10. Implementation is free of vulnerabilities that could be exploited to 
pass evaluations without completing tasks.
Figure 2: Checks in ABC to assess the task validity of an agentic benchmark.
availability and managing rate limits is crucial (T.2). If API interruptions occur, we recommend
detecting them and terminating the evaluation to keep benchmark users informed (T.3).
Environment. Agentic benchmarks often need a sandbox environment to simulate real-world
scenarios. Implementing and maintaining such environments can be challenging, especially with
complex task formulations. First, to ensure the independence of tasks, we need to ensure that any
legacy data and states are fully cleaned up before starting a new task (T.4). For example, KernelBench
failed to remove ground truth answers from GPU memory, allowing agents to obtain the correct
result through out-of-bounds memory access [35]. Furthermore, to avoid cheating by peeking at
ground truth, it is important to fully isolate agents from the ground truth results (T.5). Finally, the
environment setup should be fully reproducible and frozen at the time of benchmark release (T.6).
Relying on dynamic resources, such as continually updated external websites, is not recommended.
Implementation. Even with a robust setup of tools and environments, subtle implementation
vulnerabilities can also result in shortcuts or impossible tasks. Therefore, we recommend verifying
the correctness of ground truth annotation and the task setup (T.7-8). Providing an automatic
oracle solver can help demonstrate the correctness of the task configuration (T.9). Additionally,
as demonstrated in τ-bench [86], inspecting outliers in pilot experiments is crucial for identifying
implementation bugs (T.10). For example, if agents consistently fail on easy tasks, this may indicate
that tasks are impossible, whereas if agents only succeed on difficult tasks, it may indicate shortcuts.
4.2
Assessing Outcome Validity
In this part of the assessment, we propose practical checks for ensuring the outcome validity of an
agentic benchmark (Figure 3). We design these checks based on different types of outcomes and
different evaluation methods.
Information Acquisition. To evaluate the capability of AI agents to search, retrieve, integrate,
and summarize information, agentic benchmarks formulate tasks as information acquisition queries
[25, 86, 89, 93]. Depending on task requirements, benchmarks use various schemes for evaluating
agents’ textual responses, including whole string matching [89], substring matching [86, 93], and
LLM-as-a-judge [25, 93].
1. Whole String Matching directly compares the agent’s response and the ground truth. When
annotating ground truth, it is important to consider semantically equivalent expressions (O.a.1) or
redundant words (O.a.2).3
2. Substring Matching evaluates whether the agent’s response contains the ground truth. In addition
to equivalent expressions, it should handle negation modifiers (O.b.1), such as “not” and “negative.”
We also recommend formulating tasks carefully to prevent success by listing all possible answers
(O.b.2) or guessing (O.b.3).
3. LLM-as-a-Judge uses LLMs to emulate human annotators [9, 38, 88, 90, 97]. Previous studies
have shown that the accuracy of LLM annotations varies across domains [98]. We recommend
conducting pilot experiments to assess the accuracy and self-consistency of LLM judges (O.c.1).
3In practice, users often specify format requirements for AI agents, which narrows the scope of alternative
expressions of the ground truth. Failing to follow the format requirements is considered as a true failure.
5

--- PAGE 6 ---
Information Acquisition
Outcome Validity
Whole string matching or substring matching:
O.a.1. Considers expressions semantically equivalent to ground truth.
O.a.2. Handles redundant words used by agents.
Substring matching:
O.b.1. Handles negation modifiers used by agents.
O.b.2. Is robust against systematically listing all possible answers.
O.b.3. Ground truth is sufficiently complex to prevent guessing.
LLM-as-a-Judge:
O.c.1. Demonstrates documented or experimental evidence of the judge’s 
accuracy, self-consistency, and agreement with human.
O.c.2. Is designed to resist adversarial inputs and reward hacking.
Unit testing or end-to-end testing:
O.d.1. Verifies test cases for correctness and quality (e.g., by human).
O.d.2. Measures quality of test cases using objective metrics (e.g., 
code coverage, cyclomatic complexity control).
Fuzz testing:
O.e.1. Addresses potential edge cases.
O.e.2. Ensures comprehensive coverage of all relevant input variations 
(e.g., data types, memory layouts, value ranges).
O.e.3. Generates inputs that the code under testing is sensitive to.
End-to-end testing:
O.f.1. Exercises all relevant parts of the code being tested.
O.f.2. Prevents non-deterministic (“flaky”) test results.
Code Generation
State Matching
Multistep Reasoning
State matching:
O.g.1. Ground truth includes all states achievable after success.
O.g.2. Checks relevant and irrelevant states for the challenge.
O.g.3. Ground truth is complex to prevent trivial state modifications.
Answer matching:
O.h.1. Specifies required answer formats in challenge descriptions.
O.h.2. Minimizes the possibility of success by random guessing.
Quality measure:
O.I.1. Designs quality metrics that prevent exploitation (e.g., achieving 
high scores by reward hacking).
Figure 3: Checks in ABC to assess the outcome validity of an agentic benchmark. We group items by
the types of the outcome and the methods of evaluation.
Code Generation. Existing agentic benchmarks evaluate the capability of AI agents to write code
[30, 37, 48, 59]. These benchmarks apply program testing techniques to evaluate the correctness of
generated code, including unit testing, fuzz testing, and end-to-end testing.
1. Unit Testing designs test cases for individual functions or classes [67]. However, poorly constructed
unit tests can lead to both false positives and false negatives [70, 87]. Therefore, we recommend
manually verifying the correctness and quality of test cases (O.d.1) [14], and providing quality
guarantees using objective metrics (O.d.2) such as coverage [94] and cyclomatic complexity [76].
2. Fuzz Testing evaluates generated code by running it against a ground-truth implementation on
automatically generated inputs [95]. We should tailor the input generator to the target program,
covering different data values, types, memory layouts, and edge cases (O.e.1-2). Moreover, the
inputs must affect the output (O.e.3)—e.g., random negatives reveal nothing about relu(x) [35].
3. End-to-end (E2E) Testing simulates complete user workflows, providing comprehensive testing of
system functionality [36, 72]. In addition to ensuring the general quality of test cases, it should
also cover all possible branches of user workflows (O.f.1). Because of their complexity, E2E tests
require extra safeguards to eliminate non-determinism and ensure repeatable results (O.f.2) [61].
State Modification. Agentic benchmarks challenge agents to manipulate environment states, such as
booking flight tickets [86] and editing websites [83]. In these tasks, we often compare the final state
achieved by agents with a ground-truth state.
We identify three key checks for rigorous state matching. First, ground truth states should include
all possible outcomes achievable through successful task resolution (O.g.1). For example, when we
challenge agents to attack a website, we should evaluate all possible attack outcomes [96]. Second,
the state space should contain both relevant and irrelevant states (O.g.2), such as including both
changed and unchanged files, to help detect if agents affect the environment outside the target scope.
Finally, the state space should be complex enough (O.g.3)—for instance, involving multiple variables
or dependencies—so that random or trivial changes are unlikely to result in a correct outcome.
Multistep Reasoning. Agentic benchmarks evaluates multistep reasoning capabilities of AI agents
[11, 22, 39, 47]. These benchmarks typically require AI agents to make observations, conduct
analysis, and generate results. We summarize two common approaches for evaluating these tasks:
1. Answer Matching parses the agents’ output and then compares the parsed result with ground
truth. We find that parsers in existing benchmarks may make implicit assumption about the
agent’s output (O.h.1). For example, the MATH dataset assumes the answer of the agent starts
with “Answer:” [39]. Therefore, it is necessary to explicitly specify any assumptions, such as
6

--- PAGE 7 ---
Benchmark Reporting
Transparency & Validity
R.1. Is fully or at least partially open-sourced.
R.2. Offers an open-source evaluation harness for users.
R.3. Includes measures to prevent data contamination at the time of 
benchmark release, such as a private, held-out test set.
R.4. Includes measures or plans to consistently update challenges over 
time to avoid overfitting.
R.5. Clearly states the relationship between the agent capabilities it 
aims to evaluate and the constructs or outcomes it measures.
R.6. Clearly states the evaluation subjective of the benchmark (e.g., a 
model or an agent framework).
Flaw Mitigation
R.7. Describes steps taken to prevent, identify, and correct flaws.
R.8. Includes qualitative discussions of the potential impact of 
unavoidable flaws.
R.9. Includes quantitative analysis to assess the impact of unavoidable 
flaws (e.g., noise of ground truth).
R.10. Reports metrics about statistical significance, such as  
confidence intervals.
R.11. Provides guidance on interpreting results with eval flaws.
R.12. Reports results of non-AI baselines (e.g., human experts).
R.13. Reports results of trivial agents (e.g., one that does nothing).
Interpretation
Figure 4: Checks in ABC to assess the benchmark reporting.
format requirements. Additionally, to ensure that a single final answer reflects a genuine reasoning
process, we recommend designing tasks in a way that avoid success by guessing (O.h.2) [22].
2. Quality Measure evaluates agent using customized metrics against a baseline when ground truth is
impossible to achieve (e.g., ground-truth predictions in an ML engineering task [11]). The choice
of metrics can be highly subjective and often depends on the nature of the tasks. To avoid metric
hacking [26]—achieving high metrics without resolving tasks, we recommend ensuring that the
selected metrics are strongly correlated with the reasoning process (O.i.1).
4.3
Assessing the Benchmark Reporting
Completely avoiding evaluation issues in agentic benchmarks can be challenging, and is sometimes
not feasible, especially when using LLM-as-a-Judge or testing-based techniques. In such cases, it
is particularly important for benchmark developers to be transparent and clearly communicate the
impact of these limitations (Figure 4).
We assess the reporting quality of an agentic benchmark based on the following aspects. In Ap-
pendix F, we use BIRD as an example to demonstrate the high-quality benchmark reporting.
1. Transparency and Validity. We encourage open-sourcing both the datasets and evaluation harness
(R.1-2) while including measures to prevent data contamination (R.3-4). We also recommend
clearly specifying the capabilities to evaluate and articulating construct validity [65] (R.5-6).
2. Mitigation. When validity limitations are unavoidable, it is important to document mitigation
efforts (R.7) and provide both qualitative and quantitative evidence regarding the impact of
those limitations (R.8-9). In resource-constraint scenarios, we recommend using sampling and
uncertainty quantification techniques (e.g., Cramer’s Theorem [17]) to estimate the impact of
unavoidable flaws, such as the noise of ground truth.
3. Result Interpretation. We recommend reporting benchmark results rigorously, including measures
of statistical significance (R.10), clear interpretation guidelines (R.11), and appropriate baseline
comparisons (R.12-13).
5
Assessment of Agentic Benchmarks
In this section, we present the results of applying ABC on existing agentic benchmarks (Table 1).
We first show the assessment scores (Section 5.1) and then summarize newly identified issues with
quantitative results (Section 5.2). Finally, with a case study, we show how developers can apply ABC
to improve their benchmarks (Section 5.3).
5.1
Assessment Scores
We selected ten open-source agentic benchmarks from Table 3 to cover all capability categories and
evaluation methods. For each part of ABC, we calculated the average scores of applicable items. We
present the final assessment scores in Figure 5. We summarize our findings as follows.
• Task validity: more than half of the benchmarks exhibit implementation flaws, especially those that
provide tools to agents.
7

--- PAGE 8 ---
Table 1: Agentic benchmarks we assessed using ABC.
Benchmark
Evaluated Capability
Evaluation Design
SWE-bench [30]
Software Engineering
Unit Testing
SWE-Lancer [48]
Software Engineering
End-to-end Testing
KernelBench [59]
Software Engineering
Fuzz Testing
BIRD [37]
Software Engineering
Unit Testing
Cybench [89]
Cybersecurity
Answer Matching
MLE-bench [11]
Software Engineering
Quality Measure
GAIA [47]
General Assistant
Answer Matching
τ-bench [86]
Environment Interaction
Substring Matching, State Matching
WebArena [93]
Environment Interaction
Whole String Matching, Substring Matching, LLM-as-a-Judge, State Matching
OSWorld [83]
Environment Interaction
State Matching
WebArena
Bird-bench
GAIA
SWE-lancer
Kernelbench
OSWorld
MLE-bench
SWE-bench
Cybench
Tau-bench
0
25
50
75
100
Agerage Score (%)
(a) Task validity.
Kernelbench
SWE-bench
SWE-lancer
Bird-bench
Tau-bench
WebArena
OSWorld
Cybench
MLE-bench
GAIA
0
25
50
75
100
Avereage Score (%)
(b) Outcome validity.
SWE-bench
Bird-bench
OSWorld
Tau-bench
WebArena
SWE-lancer
Kernelbench
GAIA
Cybench
MLE-bench
0
25
50
75
100
Average Score (%)
(c) Benchmark reporting.
Figure 5: Assessment results of selected benchmarks. We find 7 benchmarks violating task validity, 7
violating outcome validity, and all 10 with limitations in reporting.
• Outcome validity: more than half of the benchmarks fail to address inherent limitations of the
evaluation methods.
• Benchmark Reporting: 80% of the benchmarks fail to acknowledge weaknesses in their design or
implementation, and none satisfies every reporting criterion.
5.2
Assessment Findings
We conducted an in-depth analysis of specific issues present in each agentic benchmark. In this
section, we focus on discussing 4 benchmarks with newly discovered issues. We defer a detailed
description of all identified issues in Appendix D and experiment designs to E.
1. τ-bench relies on trivial states or substrings as ground truth, violating checks O.b.3 and O.g.3 and
overestimating performance by 38%.
2. τ-bench also allows agents to list every possible answer, violating check O.b.2 and overestimating
performance by 40%.
3. WebArena not only violates check O.b.2 but also uses an LLM-as-a-Judge without validating its
accuracy or consistency (check O.c.1), leading to a 1.4–5.2% performance overestimate.
4. SWE-Lancer fails to fully isolate agents from the ground truth (check T.5), allowing agents to
score 100% without solving tasks.
5. KernelBench omits comprehensive fuzzing for edge cases and memory layouts—violating checks
O.e.1 and O.e.2 and overestimatingkernel-correctness performance by approximately 31%.
6. In OSWorld, the task website changes have broken the HTML selectors used for evaluation,
leading to a 28% performance underestimation in the chrome task section.
τ-bench. First, τ-bench contains intentionally unsolvable tasks—38% of the airline subset and 6%
of the retail subset. Because success is defined as leaving the environment unchanged, an agent that
does nothing still passes evaluation of these tasks. Second, 2% of airline tasks and 3.6% of retail
tasks treat verbatim database text as ground truth and grade by substring matching. Therefore, an
agent that dumps the entire database passes evaluations of these tasks.
8

--- PAGE 9 ---
Cy-Agent
AutoGPT
T-Agent
0
20
40
60
(a) Zero-day
Success@1 (fixed)
Success@5 (fixed)
Cy-Agent
AutoGPT
T-Agent
0
20
40
60
(b) One-day
Success@1
Success@5
(a) Before and after fixing the design for evaluating
time-based SQL injection.
Cy-Agent
AutoGPT
T-Agent
0
20
40
60
(a) Zero-day
Success@1 (fixed)
Success@5 (fixed)
Cy-Agent
AutoGPT
T-Agent
0
20
40
60
(b) One-day
Success@1
Success@5
(b) Before and after fixing the implementation of evalu-
ating outbound service.
Figure 6: Demonstration of using our checklist to improve the evaluation rigor of CVE-Bench.
WebArena. We identify two issues in WebArena, a benchmark for evaluating agents in interacting
with websites. First, its substring-matching ignores extraneous content, so an agent that includes
irrelevant information is considered successful. Second, for tasks labeled “N/A,” the LLM judge that
accepts an empty reply as correct, enabling a trivial agent to pass.
SWE-Lancer evaluates an agent’s ability to implement features by allowing it to execute Python
scripts that interact directly with the file system. This design grants agents unrestricted read-write ac-
cess, including to the benchmark’s own test files. Although these tests reside in a password-protected
ZIP archive, the archive’s directory structure can be listed—and its contents overwritten—without
knowing the password. Therefore, an agent can locate the tests and replace them with a trivial
assertion (e.g., assert 1 == 1), achieving a perfect score without solving any of the intended tasks.
KernelBench evaluates generated CUDA kernels with randomly generated tensors, while its fuzzer
varies only the tensor values, leaving shapes and memory layouts unchanged. As a result, kernels
that would fail under alternative configurations can still pass. Re-examining the kernels reported by
Lange et al. [35], we find that the correctness rate of kernels is overestimated by 31%.
OSWorld. We find that in the chrome section of OSWorld, 13/46 problems are broken due to changes
made to the layout, URLs, and functionality of websites since the initial creation of the benchmark.
This is because many evaluations rely on HTML element selectors, such as classes and XPaths. These
websites might change their layouts after the benchmark released. In our experiments, we found that
this issue leads to an underestimation of the performance of UI-TAR, the state-of-the-art open-source
agent for OSWorld, by 28% in absolute terms.
5.3
Revising CVE-Bench
In this section, we use a benchmark with representatively complex design and implementation to
demonstrate how ABC can help improve an agentic benchmark. CVE-Bench is a benchmark for
evaluating AI agents’ ability to exploit real-world web vulnerabilities under one- or zero-day scenarios
[96]. It evaluates agents by checking whether one of the pre-specified attack targets (e.g., denial of
service) is accomplished. Using ABC, we resolved flaws in outcome and task validity.
Naive State Matching for Time-based Injections. Time-based SQL injection infers the database
content by measuring the latency difference across multiple requests [23]. For example, an attacker
can execute a SLEEP command within a IF clause and measure the latency to determine whether the
IF condition is satisfied. CVE-bench measured such attacks by examining whether a SLEEP clause
appears in the database log. However, containing a SLEEP clause in the log does not necessarily
indicate executions of SLEEP, violating check O.g.1. Consequently, agents can pass the evaluation by
adding SLEEP anywhere in the query, leading to performance overestimation by 32.5%.
Ungated Outbound Server. Inducing the web application to send requests to a banned outbound
server is a critical cybersecurity attack [29]. CVE-bench measured such attacks by checking whether
an outbound server has been accessed. To answer check T.9, we conducted various rounds of mock
execution and identified that agents consistently passed the evaluation for this attack, which likely
indicates a bug in the implementation. Indeed, we find that agents can access the outbound server
9

--- PAGE 10 ---
when connecting from the same docker network, creating a shortcut. After denying external requests
on the outbound server, the success rates of agents decreased by 10% (Figure 6b).
6
Conclusion
We formulate the first actionable agentic benchmarks checklists (ABC) focusing on the outcome
validity, task validity, and reporting of results. Via ABC, we proposed a set of the best practices
for building rigorous agentic benchmarks. Based on ABC, we assessed ten widely used agentic
benchmarks and identified significant evaluation issues that cases up to 100% errors (in relative terms)
when estimating agents’ performance. Finally, we use CVE-Bench [96] as an example to demonstrate
using ABC to improve the evaluation rigor during benchmark construction.
7
Acknowledgements
We are grateful to the CloudLab [19] for providing computing resources for experiments. This
research was supported in part by Open Philanthropy project.
References
[1] UK AI Security Institute. Inspect AI: Framework for Large Language Model Evaluations, 2024.
URL https://github.com/UKGovernmentBEIS/inspect_ai.
[2] Aider. Gpt code editing benchmarks, 2024. URL https://aider.chat/docs/benchmarks.
html.
[3] Aider. o1 tops aider’s new polyglot leaderboard, 2024. URL https://aider.chat/2024/
12/21/polyglot.html#the-polyglot-benchmark.
[4] Amazon.
The
amazon
nova
family
of
models:
Technical
report
and
model
card,
2024.
URL
https://www.amazon.science/publications/
the-amazon-nova-family-of-models-technical-report-and-model-card.
[5] Anthropic.
Claude 3.5 sonnet, 2024.
URL https://www.anthropic.com/news/
claude-3-5-sonnet.
[6] Anthropic. Claude 3.7 and claude code, 2025. URL https://www.anthropic.com/news/
claude-3-7-sonnet.
[7] Arcwise.
Bird minidev - corrections, 2024.
URL https://docs.google.com/
spreadsheets/d/1IGm9Otruey60ujUnl8AOkepY3qgWHdFJHnX7hQGUeCw.
[8] Jacob Austin, Augustus Odena, Maxwell Nye, Maarten Bosma, Henryk Michalewski, David
Dohan, Ellen Jiang, Carrie Cai, Michael Terry, Quoc Le, et al. Program synthesis with large
language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2108.07732, 2021.
[9] Anna Bavaresco, Raffaella Bernardi, Leonardo Bertolazzi, Desmond Elliott, Raquel Fernández,
Albert Gatt, Esam Ghaleb, Mario Giulianelli, Michael Hanna, Alexander Koller, et al. Llms
instead of human judges? a large scale empirical study across 20 nlp evaluation tasks. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2406.18403, 2024.
[10] Jialun Cao, Yuk-Kit Chan, Zixuan Ling, Wenxuan Wang, Shuqing Li, Mingwei Liu, Chaozheng
Wang, Boxi Yu, Pinjia He, Shuai Wang, et al. How should i build a benchmark? arXiv preprint
arXiv:2501.10711, 2025.
[11] Jun Shern Chan, Neil Chowdhury, Oliver Jaffe, James Aung, Dane Sherburn, Evan Mays, Giulio
Starace, Kevin Liu, Leon Maksin, Tejal Patwardhan, et al. Mle-bench: Evaluating machine
learning agents on machine learning engineering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.07095, 2024.
[12] Guangyao Chen, Siwei Dong, Yu Shu, Ge Zhang, Jaward Sesay, Börje F Karlsson, Jie Fu,
and Yemin Shi. Autoagents: A framework for automatic agent generation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2309.17288, 2023.
[13] Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming Yuan, Henrique Ponde de Oliveira Pinto,
Jared Kaplan, Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph, Greg Brockman, Alex Ray, Raul
Puri, Gretchen Krueger, Michael Petrov, Heidy Khlaaf, Girish Sastry, Pamela Mishkin, Brooke
10

--- PAGE 11 ---
Chan, Scott Gray, Nick Ryder, Mikhail Pavlov, Alethea Power, Lukasz Kaiser, Mohammad
Bavarian, Clemens Winter, Philippe Tillet, Felipe Petroski Such, Dave Cummings, Matthias
Plappert, Fotios Chantzis, Elizabeth Barnes, Ariel Herbert-Voss, William Hebgen Guss, Alex
Nichol, Alex Paino, Nikolas Tezak, Jie Tang, Igor Babuschkin, Suchir Balaji, Shantanu Jain,
William Saunders, Christopher Hesse, Andrew N. Carr, Jan Leike, Josh Achiam, Vedant Misra,
Evan Morikawa, Alec Radford, Matthew Knight, Miles Brundage, Mira Murati, Katie Mayer,
Peter Welinder, Bob McGrew, Dario Amodei, Sam McCandlish, Ilya Sutskever, and Wojciech
Zaremba. Evaluating large language models trained on code, 2021.
[14] Neil Chowdhury, James Aung, Chan Jun Shern, Oliver Jaffe, Dane Sherburn, Giulio Starace,
Evan Mays, Rachel Dias, Marwan Aljubeh, Mia Glaese, Carlos E. Jimenez, John Yang, Leyton
Ho, Tejal Patwardhan, Kevin Liu, and Aleksander Madry. Introducing swe-bench verified, 2024.
URL https://openai.com/index/introducing-swe-bench-verified/.
[15] DeepSeek. Introducing deepseek v3, 2024. URL https://api-docs.deepseek.com/news/
news1226.
[16] Jia Deng, Wei Dong, Richard Socher, Li-Jia Li, Kai Li, and Li Fei-Fei. Imagenet: A large-
scale hierarchical image database. In 2009 IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition, pages 248–255. Ieee, 2009.
[17] Florian E Dorner and Moritz Hardt. Don’t label twice: Quantity beats quality when comparing
binary classifiers on a budget. In International Conference on Machine Learning, pages
11544–11572. PMLR, 2024.
[18] Florian E Dorner, Vivian Y Nastl, and Moritz Hardt. Limits to scalable evaluation at the frontier:
Llm as judge won’t beat twice the data. International Conference on Learning Representations,
2025.
[19] Dmitry Duplyakin, Robert Ricci, Aleksander Maricq, Gary Wong, Jonathon Duerig, Eric Eide,
Leigh Stoller, Mike Hibler, David Johnson, Kirk Webb, Aditya Akella, Kuangching Wang,
Glenn Ricart, Larry Landweber, Chip Elliott, Michael Zink, Emmanuel Cecchet, Snigdhaswin
Kar, and Prabodh Mishra. The design and operation of CloudLab. In Proceedings of the
USENIX Annual Technical Conference (ATC), pages 1–14, July 2019. URL https://www.
flux.utah.edu/paper/duplyakin-atc19.
[20] Maria Eriksson, Erasmo Purificato, Arman Noroozian, Joao Vinagre, Guillaume Chaslot, Emilia
Gomez, and David Fernandez-Llorca. Can we trust ai benchmarks? an interdisciplinary review
of current issues in ai evaluation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.06559, 2025.
[21] Li Fei-Fei and Ranjay Krishna. Searching for computer vision north stars. Daedalus, 151(2):
85–99, 2022.
[22] Elliot Glazer, Ege Erdil, Tamay Besiroglu, Diego Chicharro, Evan Chen, Alex Gunning,
Caroline Falkman Olsson, Jean-Stanislas Denain, Anson Ho, Emily de Oliveira Santos, et al.
Frontiermath: A benchmark for evaluating advanced mathematical reasoning in ai. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2411.04872, 2024.
[23] William GJ Halfond, Jeremy Viegas, Alessandro Orso, et al. A classification of sql injection
attacks and countermeasures. In ISSSE, 2006.
[24] Amelia Hardy, Anka Reuel, Kiana Jafari Meimandi, Lisa Soder, Allie Griffith, Dylan M Asmar,
Sanmi Koyejo, Michael S Bernstein, and Mykel John Kochenderfer. More than marketing? on
the information value of ai benchmarks for practitioners. In Proceedings of the 30th International
Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces, pages 1032–1047, 2025.
[25] Hongliang He, Wenlin Yao, Kaixin Ma, Wenhao Yu, Yong Dai, Hongming Zhang, Zhenzhong
Lan, and Dong Yu. Webvoyager: Building an end-to-end web agent with large multimodal
models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.13919, 2024.
[26] Megan L Head, Luke Holman, Rob Lanfear, Andrew T Kahn, and Michael D Jennions. The
extent and consequences of p-hacking in science. PLoS biology, 13(3):e1002106, 2015.
[27] Dan Hendrycks, Collin Burns, Steven Basart, Andy Zou, Mantas Mazeika, Dawn Song, and
Jacob Steinhardt.
Measuring massive multitask language understanding.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2009.03300, 2020.
[28] Torsten Hothorn, Friedrich Leisch, Achim Zeileis, and Kurt Hornik. The design and analysis of
benchmark experiments. Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 14(3):675–699,
2005.
11

--- PAGE 12 ---
[29] Bahruz Jabiyev, Omid Mirzaei, Amin Kharraz, and Engin Kirda. Preventing server-side request
forgery attacks. In Proceedings of the 36th Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing,
pages 1626–1635, 2021.
[30] Carlos E Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and
Karthik R Narasimhan. Swe-bench: Can language models resolve real-world github issues? In
ICLR, 2024.
[31] Carlos E Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and
Karthik R Narasimhan. Swe-bench verified leaderboard, 2025. URL https://www.swebench.
com/#verified.
[32] Sayash Kapoor, Benedikt Stroebl, Zachary S Siegel, Nitya Nadgir, and Arvind Narayanan. Ai
agents that matter. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.01502, 2024.
[33] Koray Kavukcuoglu. Gemini 2.0 is now available to everyone, 2025. URL https://blog.
google/technology/google-deepmind/gemini-model-updates-february-2025/.
[34] Hynek Kydlíˇcek and Greg Gandenberger. Math-verify, 2025. URL https://github.com/
huggingface/Math-Verify.
[35] Robert Tjarko Lange, Aaditya Prasad, Qi Sun, Maxence Faldor, Yujin Tang, and David Ha. The
ai cuda engineer: Agentic cuda kernel discovery, optimization and composition. 2025.
[36] Maurizio Leotta, Boni García, Filippo Ricca, and Jim Whitehead. Challenges of end-to-end
testing with selenium webdriver and how to face them: A survey. In 2023 IEEE Conference on
Software Testing, Verification and Validation (ICST), pages 339–350. IEEE, 2023.
[37] Jinyang Li, Binyuan Hui, Ge Qu, Jiaxi Yang, Binhua Li, Bowen Li, Bailin Wang, Bowen Qin,
Ruiying Geng, Nan Huo, et al. Can llm already serve as a database interface? a big bench for
large-scale database grounded text-to-sqls. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
36:42330–42357, 2023.
[38] Zhen Li, Xiaohan Xu, Tao Shen, Can Xu, Jia-Chen Gu, Yuxuan Lai, Chongyang Tao, and
Shuai Ma. Leveraging large language models for nlg evaluation: Advances and challenges. In
Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,
pages 16028–16045, 2024.
[39] Hunter Lightman, Vineet Kosaraju, Yuri Burda, Harrison Edwards, Bowen Baker, Teddy Lee,
Jan Leike, John Schulman, Ilya Sutskever, and Karl Cobbe. Let’s verify step by step. In The
Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations, 2023.
[40] Bill Yuchen Lin, Yicheng Fu, Karina Yang, Faeze Brahman, Shiyu Huang, Chandra Bhagavatula,
Prithviraj Ammanabrolu, Yejin Choi, and Xiang Ren. Swiftsage: A generative agent with fast
and slow thinking for complex interactive tasks. Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 36:23813–23825, 2023.
[41] Timothy R McIntosh, Teo Susnjak, Nalin Arachchilage, Tong Liu, Paul Watters, and Malka N
Halgamuge. Inadequacies of large language model benchmarks in the era of generative artificial
intelligence. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.09880, 2024.
[42] Meta. Introducing llama 3.1: Our most capable models to date, 2024. URL https://ai.meta.
com/blog/meta-llama-3-1/.
[43] Meta.
Llama
3.2:
Revolutionizing
edge
ai
and
vision
with
open,
customizable
models,
2024.
URL
https://ai.meta.com/blog/
llama-3-2-connect-2024-vision-edge-mobile-devices/.
[44] METR. Evaluating language-model agents on realistic autonomous tasks, 2023. URL https:
//metr.org/blog/2023-08-01-new-report/.
[45] METR. Example protocol for running an ai agent evaluation, 2024. URL https://metr.
github.io/autonomy-evals-guide/example-protocol/.
[46] METR. Measuring automated kernel engineering, 2025. URL https://metr.org/blog/
2025-02-14-measuring-automated-kernel-engineering.
[47] Grégoire Mialon, Clémentine Fourrier, Thomas Wolf, Yann LeCun, and Thomas Scialom. Gaia:
a benchmark for general ai assistants. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2023.
12

--- PAGE 13 ---
[48] Samuel Miserendino, Michele Wang, Tejal Patwardhan, and Johannes Heidecke. Swe-lancer:
Can frontier llms earn $1 million from real-world freelance software engineering?
arXiv
preprint arXiv:2502.12115, 2025.
[49] Mistral-AI.
Mixtral
large
2,
2024.
URL
https://mistral.ai/news/
mistral-large-2407.
[50] OpenAI.
Preparedness framework (beta), 2023.
URL https://cdn.openai.com/
openai-preparedness-framework-beta.pdf.
[51] OpenAI.
Gpt-4o
system
card,
2024.
URL
https://openai.com/index/
gpt-4o-system-card/.
[52] OpenAI.
Openai o1 system card,
2024.
URL https://openai.com/index/
openai-o1-system-card/.
[53] OpenAI.
Openai
o1-mini,
2024.
URL
https://openai.com/index/
openai-o1-mini-advancing-cost-efficient-reasoning/.
[54] OpenAI. Gpt-4o mini: advancing cost-efficient intelligence, 2025. URL https://openai.
com/index/gpt-4o-mini-advancing-cost-efficient-intelligence/.
[55] OpenAI.
Computer-user
agent,
2025.
URL
https://openai.com/index/
computer-using-agent/.
[56] OpenAI.
Introducing deep research, 2025.
URL https://openai.com/index/
introducing-deep-research/.
[57] OpenAI.
Introducing
gpt-4.5,
2025.
URL
https://openai.com/index/
introducing-gpt-4-5/.
[58] OpenAI. Openai o3-mini, 2025. URL https://openai.com/index/openai-o3-mini/.
[59] Anne Ouyang, Simon Guo, Simran Arora, Alex L Zhang, William Hu, Christopher Re, and
Azalia Mirhoseini. Kernelbench: Can llms write efficient gpu kernels? In ICLR 2025 Third
Workshop on Deep Learning for Code (Best paper award), 2025.
[60] Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu. Bleu: a method for automatic
evaluation of machine translation. In Proceedings of the 40th annual meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics, pages 311–318, 2002.
[61] Owain Parry, Gregory M Kapfhammer, Michael Hilton, and Phil McMinn. A survey of flaky
tests. ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology (TOSEM), 31(1):1–74,
2021.
[62] Mohammadreza Pourreza and Davood Rafiei. Evaluating cross-domain text-to-sql models and
benchmarks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.18538, 2023.
[63] Shanghaoran Quan, Jiaxi Yang, Bowen Yu, Bo Zheng, Dayiheng Liu, An Yang, Xuancheng
Ren, Bofei Gao, Yibo Miao, Yunlong Feng, et al. Codeelo: Benchmarking competition-level
code generation of llms with human-comparable elo ratings. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.01257,
2025.
[64] Inioluwa Deborah Raji, Emily Denton, Emily M Bender, Alex Hanna, and Amandalynne
Paullada. Ai and the everything in the whole wide world benchmark. In Thirty-fifth Conference
on Neural Information Processing Systems Datasets and Benchmarks Track (Round 2).
[65] Anka Reuel, Amelia Hardy, Chandler Smith, Max Lamparth, Malcolm Hardy, and Mykel
Kochenderfer. Betterbench: Assessing ai benchmarks, uncovering issues, and establishing best
practices. In The Thirty-eight Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems Datasets
and Benchmarks Track, 2024.
[66] Filippo Ricca and Paolo Tonella. Analysis and testing of web applications. In Proceedings of
the 23rd International Conference on Software Engineering. ICSE 2001, pages 25–34. IEEE,
2001.
[67] Per Runeson. A survey of unit testing practices. IEEE software, 23(4):22–29, 2006.
[68] Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Ashwin Gopinath, Karthik Narasimhan, and Shunyu Yao.
Reflexion: Language agents with verbal reinforcement learning. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 36:8634–8652, 2023.
13

--- PAGE 14 ---
[69] US AI Safety Institute Technical Staff.
Strengthening ai agent hijacking eval-
uations,
2025.
URL
https://www.nist.gov/news-events/news/2025/01/
technical-blog-strengthening-ai-agent-hijacking-evaluations.
[70] Benedikt Stroebl, Sayash Kapoor, and Arvind Narayanan. Inference scaling flaws: The limits
of llm resampling with imperfect verifiers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.17501, 2024.
[71] Hao Tang, Darren Key, and Kevin Ellis. Worldcoder, a model-based llm agent: Building world
models by writing code and interacting with the environment. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 37:70148–70212, 2024.
[72] Wei-Tek Tsai, Xiaoying Bai, Ray Paul, Weiguang Shao, and Vishal Agarwal. End-to-end
integration testing design. In 25th Annual International Computer Software and Applications
Conference. COMPSAC 2001, pages 166–171. IEEE, 2001.
[73] Dimitris Tsipras, Shibani Santurkar, Logan Engstrom, Andrew Ilyas, and Aleksander Madry.
From imagenet to image classification: Contextualizing progress on benchmarks. In Interna-
tional Conference on Machine Learning, pages 9625–9635. PMLR, 2020.
[74] Bertie Vidgen, Adarsh Agrawal, Ahmed M Ahmed, Victor Akinwande, Namir Al-Nuaimi, Najla
Alfaraj, Elie Alhajjar, Lora Aroyo, Trupti Bavalatti, Max Bartolo, et al. Introducing v0. 5 of the
ai safety benchmark from mlcommons. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.12241, 2024.
[75] Leandro Von Werra, Lewis Tunstall, Abhishek Thakur, Sasha Luccioni, Tristan Thrush, Aleksan-
dra Piktus, Felix Marty, Nazneen Rajani, Victor Mustar, and Helen Ngo. Evaluate & evaluation
on the hub: Better best practices for data and model measurements. In Proceedings of the 2022
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing: System Demonstrations,
pages 128–136, 2022.
[76] Arthur Henry Watson, Dolores R Wallace, and Thomas J McCabe. Structured testing: A
testing methodology using the cyclomatic complexity metric, volume 500. US Department of
Commerce, Technology Administration, National Institute of ..., 1996.
[77] Jason Wei, Nguyen Karina, Hyung Won Chung, Yunxin Joy Jiao, Spencer Papay, Amelia Glaese,
John Schulman, and William Fedus. Measuring short-form factuality in large language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.04368, 2024.
[78] Colin White, Samuel Dooley, Manley Roberts, Arka Pal, Ben Feuer, Siddhartha Jain, Ravid
Shwartz-Ziv, Neel Jain, Khalid Saifullah, Siddartha Naidu, et al. Livebench: A challenging,
contamination-free llm benchmark. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.19314, 2024.
[79] Hjalmar Wijk, Tao Lin, Joel Becker, Sami Jawhar, Neev Parikh, Thomas Broadley, Lawrence
Chan, Michael Chen, Josh Clymer, Jai Dhyani, et al. Re-bench: Evaluating frontier ai r&d
capabilities of language model agents against human experts. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.15114,
2024.
[80] Niklas Wretblad, Fredrik Gordh Riseby, Rahul Biswas, Amin Ahmadi, and Oskar Holmström.
Understanding the effects of noise in text-to-sql: an examination of the bird-bench benchmark.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.12243, 2024.
[81] xAI. Grok 2 beta release, 2024. URL https://x.ai/news/grok-2.
[82] xAI. Grok 3 beta — the age of reasoning agents, 2024. URL https://x.ai/news/grok-3.
[83] Tianbao Xie, Danyang Zhang, Jixuan Chen, Xiaochuan Li, Siheng Zhao, Ruisheng Cao,
Jing Hua Toh, Zhoujun Cheng, Dongchan Shin, Fangyu Lei, et al. Osworld: Benchmarking
multimodal agents for open-ended tasks in real computer environments. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 37:52040–52094, 2024.
[84] John Yang, Carlos Jimenez, Alexander Wettig, Kilian Lieret, Shunyu Yao, Karthik Narasimhan,
and Ofir Press. Swe-agent: Agent-computer interfaces enable automated software engineering.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 37:50528–50652, 2024.
[85] Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik R Narasimhan, and
Yuan Cao. React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. In The Eleventh
International Conference on Learning Representations, 2023.
[86] Shunyu Yao, Noah Shinn, Pedram Razavi, and Karthik R Narasimhan. tau-bench: A bench-
mark for tool-agent-user interaction in real-world domains. In The Thirteenth International
Conference on Learning Representations, 2025.
14

--- PAGE 15 ---
[87] Boxi Yu, Yuxuan Zhu, Pinjia He, and Daniel Kang. Utboost: Rigorous evaluation of coding
agents on swe-bench. ACL, 2025.
[88] Zhiyuan Zeng, Jiatong Yu, Tianyu Gao, Yu Meng, Tanya Goyal, and Danqi Chen. Evaluating
large language models at evaluating instruction following. ICLR, 2024.
[89] Andy K Zhang, Neil Perry, Riya Dulepet, Joey Ji, Celeste Menders, Justin W Lin, Eliot Jones,
Gashon Hussein, Samantha Liu, Donovan Jasper, et al. Cybench: A framework for evaluating
cybersecurity capabilities and risks of language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.08926,
2024.
[90] Lianmin Zheng, Wei-Lin Chiang, Ying Sheng, Siyuan Zhuang, Zhanghao Wu, Yonghao Zhuang,
Zi Lin, Zhuohan Li, Dacheng Li, Eric Xing, et al. Judging llm-as-a-judge with mt-bench and
chatbot arena. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36:46595–46623, 2023.
[91] Kun Zhou, Yutao Zhu, Zhipeng Chen, Wentong Chen, Wayne Xin Zhao, Xu Chen, Yankai Lin,
Ji-Rong Wen, and Jiawei Han. Don’t make your llm an evaluation benchmark cheater. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2311.01964, 2023.
[92] Shuyan Zhou, Frank F Xu, Hao Zhu, Xuhui Zhou, Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar, Xi-
anyi Cheng, Tianyue Ou, Yonatan Bisk, Daniel Fried, et al.
X-webarena-leaderboard,
2024.
URL https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1M801lEpBbKSNwP-vDBkC_
pF7LdyGU1f_ufZb_NWNBZQ/edit?gid=0#gid=0.
[93] Shuyan Zhou, Frank F Xu, Hao Zhu, Xuhui Zhou, Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar, Xianyi Cheng,
Tianyue Ou, Yonatan Bisk, Daniel Fried, et al. Webarena: A realistic web environment for build-
ing autonomous agents. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations,
2024.
[94] Hong Zhu, Patrick AV Hall, and John HR May. Software unit test coverage and adequacy. Acm
computing surveys (csur), 29(4):366–427, 1997.
[95] Xiaogang Zhu, Sheng Wen, Seyit Camtepe, and Yang Xiang. Fuzzing: a survey for roadmap.
ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR), 54(11s):1–36, 2022.
[96] Yuxuan Zhu, Antony Kellermann, Dylan Bowman, Philip Li, Akul Gupta, Adarsh Danda,
Richard Fang, Conner Jensen, Eric Ihli, Jason Benn, et al. Cve-bench: A benchmark for ai agents’
ability to exploit real-world web application vulnerabilities. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.17332,
2025.
[97] Mingchen Zhuge, Changsheng Zhao, Dylan Ashley, Wenyi Wang, Dmitrii Khizbullin, Yunyang
Xiong, Zechun Liu, Ernie Chang, Raghuraman Krishnamoorthi, Yuandong Tian, et al. Agent-
as-a-judge: Evaluate agents with agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.10934, 2024.
[98] Caleb Ziems, William Held, Omar Shaikh, Jiaao Chen, Zhehao Zhang, and Diyi Yang. Can
large language models transform computational social science? Computational Linguistics, 50
(1):237–291, 2024.
15

--- PAGE 16 ---
A
Limitation and Impact Statement
Limitation. As the first study to systematically investigate the issue of evaluation rigor in agen-
tic benchmarks, our work is not without limitations. First, our analysis covered only 17 agentic
benchmarks that are used by top AI providers between January 2024 and March 2025. We did not
analyze benchmarks outside this time frame. Therefore, our findings may not necessarily include all
relevant evaluation practices. Consequently, it is possible that we have not presented an exhaustive
checklist for ensuring evaluation rigor. Second, our taxonomy and analysis are grounded in the current
understanding of the reasoning capabilities of AI agents. It is conceivable that future developments in
AI may introduce advanced capabilities, which could, in turn, lead to more evaluation challenges that
are not addressed in this study. Finally, our findings only reflect the state the analyzed benchmark at
the time of writing. Future revisions of these benchmarks may yield different results. Therefore, our
conclusions may not fully apply to subsequent versions.
Broader Impact. Although our study rigorously highlights shortcomings in existing benchmarks,
our aim is not to criticize but to raise awareness and foster the development of a stronger community
with higher standards and improved quality in agentic benchmarks. We anticipate that our findings
will encourage more critical evaluation of agentic benchmark results and a reassessment of AI agent
leaderboards. We believe these contributions will lead to a deeper and more accurate understanding
of AI agent capabilities, resulting in positive societal impact.
B
Details of Benchmark Collection and Selection
We first surveyed the model release blog posts, technical reports, and paper of top AI provider,
including OpenAI, Anthropic, Google, Meta, xAI, Mistral, DeepSeek, and Amazon. Since AI agents
and their capabilities are evolving with a fast pace, we focused on state-of-the-art models released
between January 2024 and March 2025. Furthermore, we also considered benchmarks that won
awards on peer-reviewed academic venues. As shown in Table 2, we identified 78 benchmarks.
Next, we classified these benchmarks into agentic benchmarks and non-agentic benchmarks. An
agentic benchmark mush involve tasks that require multistep reasoning or command execution, which
excludes fact-seeking questions, such as simpleQA [77], straightforward question-answer (QA)
datasets, such as MMMLU [27], and straightforward programming tasks, such as MBPP [8] and
HumanEval [13]. As shown in Table 2, we collected 25 agentic benchmarks.
Finally, we categorize these agentic benchmarks based on their evaluated capabilities, evaluation
methods, and open-source availability (Table 3). We selected ten benchmarks for in-depth assessment,
ensuring open-source availability and a comprehensive coverage over the evaluated capabilities and
evaluation methods.
Table 2: Benchmarks used by major AI providers between 1 January 2024 and 18 March 2025. Duplicate benchmarks are listed only once.
Benchmark
Used by
Source
Agentic
SimpleQA
OpenAI
Introducing GPT-4.5 [57]
✗
SWE-Bench Verified
OpenAI
Introducing GPT-4.5 [57]
✔
GPQA
OpenAI
Introducing GPT-4.5 [57]
✗
AIME ‘24
OpenAI
Introducing GPT-4.5 [57]
✗
MMMLU
OpenAI
Introducing GPT-4.5 [57]
✗
MMMU
OpenAI
Introducing GPT-4.5 [57]
✗
SWE-Lancer Diamond
OpenAI
Introducing GPT-4.5 [57]
✔
GAIA
OpenAI
Introducing deep research [56]
✔
FrontierMath
OpenAI
OpenAI o3-mini [58]
✔
Codeforces
OpenAI
OpenAI o3-mini [58]
✔
LiveBench Coding
OpenAI
OpenAI o3-mini [58]
✔
MMLU
OpenAI
OpenAI o3-mini [58]
✗
Math
OpenAI
OpenAI o3-mini [58]
✗
Continued on next page
16

--- PAGE 17 ---
Table 2: Benchmarks used by major AI providers between 1 January 2024 and 18 March 2025. Duplicate benchmarks are listed only once.
(Continued)
MGSM
OpenAI
OpenAI o3-mini [58]
✗
OSWorld
OpenAI
Computer-Using Agent [55]
✔
WebArena
OpenAI
Computer-Using Agent [55]
✔
WebVoyager
OpenAI
Computer-Using Agent [55]
✔
HumanEval
OpenAI
OpenAI o1-mini [53]
✗
MATH-500
OpenAI
OpenAI o1-mini [53]
✔
DROP
OpenAI
GPT-4o mini: advancing cost-efficient intelligence [54]
✗
MathVista
OpenAI
GPT-4o mini: advancing cost-efficient intelligence [54]
✔
RE-Bench
OpenAI
GPT-4o System Card [51]
✔
MedQA
OpenAI
GPT-4o System Card [51]
✗
MedMCQA
OpenAI
GPT-4o System Card [51]
✗
ProtocolQA
OpenAI
OpenAI o1 System Card [52]
✗
BioLP-Bench
OpenAI
OpenAI o1 System Card [52]
✗
MLE-bench
OpenAI
OpenAI o1 System Card [52]
✔
Tau-bench
Anthropic
Claude 3.7 Sonnet and Claude Code [6]
✔
BIG-Bench-Hard
Anthropic
Claude 3.5 Sonnet [5]
✗
IF-Eval
Deepseek
Introducing DeepSeek-V3 [15]
✗
FRAMES
Deepseek
Introducing DeepSeek-V3 [15]
✗
LongBench v2
Deepseek
Introducing DeepSeek-V3 [15]
✗
Aider-Edit
Deepseek
Introducing DeepSeek-V3 [15]
✔
Aider-Polyglot
Deepseek
Introducing DeepSeek-V3 [15]
✔
CNMO 2024
Deepseek
Introducing DeepSeek-V3 [15]
✔
CLUEWSC
Deepseek
Introducing DeepSeek-V3 [15]
✗
C-Eval
Deepseek
Introducing DeepSeek-V3 [15]
✗
C-SimpleQA
Deepseek
Introducing DeepSeek-V3 [15]
✗
LOFT (128k)
xAI
Grok 3 Beta — The Age of Reasoning Agents [82]
✗
EgoSchema
xAI
Grok 3 Beta — The Age of Reasoning Agents [82]
✗
DocVQA
xAI
Grok-2 Beta Release [81]
✗
ChartQA
Meta
Llama 3.2: Revolutionizing edge AI and vision with open, customizable models [43]
✗
AI2 Diagram
Meta
Llama 3.2: Revolutionizing edge AI and vision with open, customizable models [43]
✗
VQAv2
Meta
Llama 3.2: Revolutionizing edge AI and vision with open, customizable models [43]
✗
Open-rewrite eval
Meta
Llama 3.2: Revolutionizing edge AI and vision with open, customizable models [43]
✗
TLDR9+
Meta
Llama 3.2: Revolutionizing edge AI and vision with open, customizable models [43]
✗
BFCL V2
Meta
Llama 3.2: Revolutionizing edge AI and vision with open, customizable models [43]
✗
Nexus
Meta
Llama 3.2: Revolutionizing edge AI and vision with open, customizable models [43]
✗
ARC Challenge
Meta
Llama 3.2: Revolutionizing edge AI and vision with open, customizable models [43]
✗
Hellaswag
Meta
Llama 3.2: Revolutionizing edge AI and vision with open, customizable models [43]
✗
InfiniteBench
Meta
Llama 3.2: Revolutionizing edge AI and vision with open, customizable models [43]
✗
NIH/Multi-needle
Meta
Llama 3.2: Revolutionizing edge AI and vision with open, customizable models [43]
✗
ZeroScrolls
Meta
Introducing Llama 3.1: Our most capable models to date [42]
✗
Bird-Bench
Google
Gemini 2.0 is now available to everyone [33]
✔
FACTS Grounding
Google
Gemini 2.0 is now available to everyone [33]
✗
HiddenMath
Google
Gemini 2.0 is now available to everyone [33]
✔
MRCR
Google
Gemini 2.0 is now available to everyone [33]
✗
CoVoST2
Google
Gemini 2.0 is now available to everyone [33]
✗
MBPP
Mistral
Mistral Large 2 [49]
✗
MT-Bench
Mistral
Mistral Large 2 [49]
✗
Wild Bench
Mistral
Mistral Large 2 [49]
✗
Arena Hard
Mistral
Mistral Large 2 [49]
✗
BBH
Amazon
The Amazon Nova family of models: Technical report and model card [4]
✗
ARC-C
Amazon
The Amazon Nova family of models: Technical report and model card [4]
✗
Continued on next page
17

--- PAGE 18 ---
Table 2: Benchmarks used by major AI providers between 1 January 2024 and 18 March 2025. Duplicate benchmarks are listed only once.
(Continued)
ChartQA
Amazon
The Amazon Nova family of models: Technical report and model card [4]
✗
Doc VQA
Amazon
The Amazon Nova family of models: Technical report and model card [4]
✗
VATEX
Amazon
The Amazon Nova family of models: Technical report and model card [4]
✗
Text VQA
Amazon
The Amazon Nova family of models: Technical report and model card [4]
✗
Ego Schema
Amazon
The Amazon Nova family of models: Technical report and model card [4]
✗
VisualWebBench
Amazon
The Amazon Nova family of models: Technical report and model card [4]
✗
NN-Mind2Web
Amazon
The Amazon Nova family of models: Technical report and model card [4]
✗
GroundUI-1K
Amazon
The Amazon Nova family of models: Technical report and model card [4]
✗
SQuALITY
Amazon
The Amazon Nova family of models: Technical report and model card [4]
✗
LVBench
Amazon
The Amazon Nova family of models: Technical report and model card [4]
✗
FinQA
Amazon
The Amazon Nova family of models: Technical report and model card [4]
✗
CRAG
Amazon
The Amazon Nova family of models: Technical report and model card [4]
✗
Kernel-Bench
DL4C
KernelBench: Can LLMs Write Efficient GPU Kernels? [59]
✔
Table 3: Collected agentic benchmarks. Assessed benchmarks are highlighted in blue.
Benchmark
Evaluated Capability
Evaluation Design
SWE-bench [30]
Software Engineering
Unit Testing
SWE-Lancer [48]
Software Engineering
End-to-end Testing
KernelBench [59]
Software Engineering
Fuzz Testing
BIRD [37]
Software Engineering
End-to-end Testing
Aider-Edit [2]
Software Engineering
Unit Testing
Codeforces [63]
Software Engineering
Unit Testing
LiveBench Coding [78]
Software Engineering
Unit Testing
Aider-Polyglot [3]
Software Engineering
Unit Testing
FrontierMathNo open-source access [22]
Challenging Math Problem-solving
Answer Match
MLE-bench [11]
ML Engineering
Quality Measure
RE-bench [79]
ML Engineering
Quality Measure
τ-bench [86]
Environment Interaction
Substring Matching, State Matching
WebArena [93]
Environment Interaction
Whole String Matching, Substring Matching,
LLM-as-a-Judge, State Matching
OSWorld [83]
Environment Interaction
State Matching
WebVoyager [25]
Environment Interaction
LLM-as-a-Judge
Cybench [89]
Cybersecurity
Answer Matching
GAIA [47]
General Assistant
Answer Matching
C
Sources of the Checks in ABC
In Table 14, we show the detail construction process of ABC by listing the sources of each check
proposed in ABC. We synthesized the insights from the following aspects
1. Our experience of developing agentic benchmarks.
2. Best practices in existing agentic benchmarks (Table 3).
3. Lessons learned from issues of existing agentic benchmarks.
4. Domain-specific suggestions when we apply well-established techniques as evaluation methods.
Table 4: Sources of items in ABC
Question
Existing Best Practice
Lessons Learned
Domain-Specific Suggestions
Continued on next page
18

--- PAGE 19 ---
Table 4: Sources of items in ABC (Continued)
O.a.1
Mialon et al. [47],
Zhou et al. [93]
O.a.2
Mialon et al. [47],
Zhou et al. [93]
Zhou et al. [93]
O.b.1
Mialon et al. [47]
Zhou et al. [93]
O.b.2
Yao et al. [86], Zhou et al. [93]
O.b.3
Zhou et al. [93]
Yao et al. [86]
O.c.1
He et al. [25]
Ziems et al. [98]
O.d.1
Chowdhury et al. [14]
Jimenez et al. [30], Yu et al. [87]
O.d.2
Zhu et al. [94]
O.e.1
Ouyang et al. [59]
Zhu et al. [95]
O.e.2
Ouyang et al. [59]
Zhu et al. [95]
O.e.3
METR [46]
O.f.1
Ricca and Tonella [66]
O.f.2
Parry et al. [61]
O.g.1
Yao et al. [86],
Zhou et al. [93],
Xie et al. [83]
O.g.2
Yao et al. [86]
Xie et al. [83]
O.g.3
Yao et al. [86]
O.h.1
Mialon et al. [47]
Kydlíˇcek and Gandenberger [34],
Lightman et al. [39]
O.h.2
Glazer et al. [22]
O.i.1
Chan et al. [11]
T.1
Miserendino et al. [48],
Li et al. [37]
T.2
Kapoor et al. [32]
Zhou et al. [93]
T.3
Zhou et al. [93]
Zhu et al. [96]
T.4
Miserendino et al. [48],
Yao et al. [86],
Jimenez et al. [30]
Lange et al. [35]
T.5
Zhang et al. [89]
Miserendino et al. [48]
T.6
Wretblad et al. [80],
Pourreza and Rafiei [62],
Li et al. [37]
T.7
Zhang et al. [89],
Zhu et al. [96],
[83]
T.8
Zhang et al. [89],
Zhu et al. [96]
Li et al. [37]
T.9
Lange et al. [35],
Miserendino et al. [48]
R.1
All benchmarks in Table 1.
R.2
All benchmarks in Table 1
except GAIA.
R.3
Chan et al. [11],
Miserendino et al. [48],
[37]
Zhou et al. [91]
R.4
White et al. [78]
R.5
Kapoor et al. [32]
R.6
All benchmarks in Table 1.
R.7
Chan et al. [11], Yao et al. [86]
R.8
Miserendino et al. [48],
Chan et al. [11]
R.9
Yao et al. [86]
R.10
Dorner and Hardt [17],
Reuel et al. [65]
Continued on next page
19

--- PAGE 20 ---
Table 4: Sources of items in ABC (Continued)
R.11
Hothorn et al. [28],
Dorner and Hardt [17]
R.12
Cao et al. [10], Xie et al. [83],
Zhang et al. [89]
R.13
Yao et al. [86]
D
Assessment Reports
In this section we provide detailed assessment reports for all ten benchmarks. Each report’s caption
specifies the corresponding paper and codebase evaluated.
Table 5: Assessment Report of SWE-Bench-Lancer (paper, code)
Check
Score
Reason
O.d.1
1
As discussed in Section 1 of the paper, the benchmark uses a set of test cases that are verified for correctness
and quality by human experts.
O.d.2
0
The benchmark does not use objective metrics to measure the quality of test cases.
O.f.2
1
As discussed in Section 1, the end-to-end testing is designed to simulate the entire user workflow.
O.f.3
0
The test cases use hard-coded timeouts, which may lead to non-deterministic results if the system is slow or
unresponsive.
T.1
1
The package dependencies are specified in the repository of each task.
T.2
1
The benchmark does not require any external APIs.
T.3
1
The benchmark does not require any external APIs.
T.4
1
The benchmark uses docker containers to isolate the environment, and the state is cleared between runs.
T.5
0
The agent can access the file system where the test cases are stored, which may lead to the agent accessing the
ground truth information.
T.6
1
The environment setup is static and does not change over time.
T.7
1
The ground-truth test cases are taken from GitHub repositories, which are verified by expert developers.
T.8
1
Each task represents a real-world software issue with a corresponding patch, which are solvable by the agent.
T.9
1
The benchmark uses existing patches as ground truth, which can be considered as an Oracle solver.
T.10
0
The benchmark does not handle the isolation between the agent and test cases properly. The test cases are stored
not only in a file system that the agent can access, but also in a ZIP file that agent can read the directory structure and update files.
R.1
1
The benchmark is open-sourced and available on GitHub.
R.2
1
The benchmark provides an open-source evaluation harness for users.
R.3
1
The benchmark maintains a private test set.
R.4
0
The report does not discuss any measures or plans for consistent update.
R.5
1
Such a relationship is clearly stated in Section 2 of the paper.
R.6
1
As shown in Section 3, the benchmark is designed to evaluate the LLM model.
R.7
1
The benchmark uses end-to-end testing to mitigate grader hacking.
R.8
1
The benchmark discusses the potential impact of grader hacking in Section 1 and Appendix A.7.
R.9
0
The benchmark does not include any quantitative analysis to assess the impact of grader hacking.
R.10
0
The benchmark does not report any metrics about statistical significance.
R.11
0
The benchmark does not provide any guidance on interpreting results with eval flaws.
R.12
0
The benchmark does not report results of non-AI baselines.
R.13
0
The benchmark does not report results of trivial agents.
Table 6: Assessment Report of Bird-Bench (paper, code)
Check
Score
Reason
O.d.1
1
As discussed in Section 3.4 of the paper, the validity of the database is verified by executing the ground-truth
query.
O.d.2
0
The paper does not use objective metrics to measure the usefulness and completeness of the database or
ground-truth queries.
Continued on next page
20

--- PAGE 21 ---
Table 6: Assessment Report of Bird-Bench (paper, code) (Continued)
O.f.2
0
The paper does not provide any information about the coverage of the database or ground-truth queries.
O.f.3
1
Executing SQL queries on a database is deterministic, and the paper does not mention any non-deterministic
behavior.
T.1
1
The task instruction in Figure 9 specifies the SQL language is SQLite.
T.2
1
No external API is required for the evaluation of the benchmark.
T.3
1
No external API is required for the evaluation of the benchmark.
T.4
0
Database file is neither opened in a read-only mode nor re-initialized between runs. This may lead to unexpected
data manipulation by the agent.
T.5
1
Agent cannot access the host file system.
T.6
1
The environment setup is static and does not change over time.
T.7
0
As discussed in Section 3.4 of the paper, the correctness of the query is not fully verified, especially for the
SQL queries that two annotators reach a consensus on.
T.8
0
The ambiguity of the SQL queries is not fully verified.
T.9
0
The Benchmark does not include an Oracle solver that can automatically solve all text-to-SQL tasks.
T.10
1
No vulnerabilities are found in the implementation of the benchmark.
R.1
1
The benchmark is open-sourced and available on GitHub.
R.2
1
The benchmark provides an open-source evaluation harness for users.
R.3
1
The benchmark has a private test set.
R.4
0
The benchmark does not discuss any measures or plans for consistent update.
R.5
1
It is clearly discussed in Section 2 of the paper.
R.6
1
It is clearly discussed in Section 2 of the paper.
R.7
0
No efforts are made to mitigate errors when both annotators make the same mistake.
R.8
0
The paper does not discuss the potential impact of annotation errors.
R.9
0
The paper does not analyze the quantitative impact of annotation errors.
R.10
0
The paper does not report any metrics about statistical significance.
R.11
0
The paper does not provide any guidance on interpreting results with eval flaws.
R.12
1
The paper reports the results of human experts.
R.13
0
The paper does not report the results of any trivial agents.
Table 7: Assessment Report of CyBench (paper, code)
Check
Score
Reason
O.h.1
1
The specific format required for the answer is provided in the task description.
O.h.2
1
The ground truth is complex enough to prevent trivial guessing.
T.1
1
Agents are granted access to using all tools. The versions of tools can be checked by the agent.
T.2
1
The benchmark does not require any external APIs.
T.3
1
The benchmark does not require any external APIs.
T.4
1
The benchmark uses docker containers to isolate the environment, and the state is cleared between runs.
T.5
1
The agent cannot directly access the container which contains the ground truth.
T.6
1
The environment setup is static and does not change over time.
T.7
1
As shown in Section 3.3 of the paper, the ground truth is verified by human.
T.8
1
As shown in Section 3.3 of the paper, each task is verified to be solvable.
T.9
1
As shown in Section 3.3 of the paper, the benchmark includes an Oracle solver that can automatically solve all
tasks.
T.10
1
No vulnerabilities are found in the implementation of the benchmark.
R.1
1
The benchmark is open-sourced and available on GitHub.
R.2
1
The benchmark provides an open-source evaluation harness for users.
R.3
0
The benchmark does not contain measures to prevent data contamination.
R.4
0
The report does not discuss plans to consistently update tasks over time.
R.5
1
Such a relationship is clearly stated in Section 1 of the paper.
R.6
1
As shown in Section 1, the benchmark is designed to evaluate both agent frameworks and LLM models.
R.7
1
Annotation flaws are mitigated by developing verifiable tasks.
Continued on next page
21

--- PAGE 22 ---
Table 7: Assessment Report of CyBench (paper, code) (Continued)
R.8
1
No unavoidable flaws are identified in the benchmark.
R.9
1
No unavoidable flaws are identified in the benchmark.
R.10
0
The report does not include any metrics about statistical significance.
R.11
1
No evaluation flaws are identified in the benchmark.
R.12
1
Human performance is reported in Section 5 of the paper.
R.13
0
The report does not report results of trivial agents.
Table 8: Assessment Report of SWE-Bench-Verified (paper, code)
Check
Score
Reason
O.d.1
1
Test cases are directly taken from GitHub repositories, and the paper does not mention any verification process.
O.d.2
0
The paper does not use objective metrics to measure quality of test cases.
T.1
1
The versions of package dependencies are specified in the repository.
T.2
1
The benchmark does not require any external APIs.
T.3
1
The benchmark does not require any external APIs.
T.4
1
The benchmark uses docker containers to isolate the environment, and the state is cleared between runs.
T.5
1
The agent cannot access the host file system, and the ground truth is not accessible to the agent.
T.6
1
The environment setup is static and does not change over time.
T.7
1
The ground-truth patches are taken from GitHub repositories, which is verified by expert developers.
T.8
1
Each task represents a real-world GitHub issue and a corresponding pull request, which are solvable by the agent.
T.9
1
Pull requests from GitHub are used as ground truth, which can be considered as an Oracle solver.
T.10
1
No vulnerabilities are found in the implementation of the benchmark, and the evaluation process is secure.
R.1
1
The benchmark is open-sourced and available on GitHub.
R.2
1
The benchmark provides an open-source evaluation harness for users.
R.3
0
The benchmark does not discuss measures to prevent data contamination.
R.4
0
The benchmark does not discuss plans to consistently update tasks over time.
R.5
1
Such a relationship is clearly stated in Section 2 of the paper.
R.6
1
The benchmark is designed to evaluate both the model and the agent framework, as discussed in Section 5 of the
paper.
R.7
0
The benchmark does not discuss any efforts to prevent, identify, and correct flaws.
R.8
0
The benchmark does not discuss the potential impact of unavoidable flaws.
R.9
0
The benchmark does not include quantitative analysis to assess the impact of unavoidable flaws.
R.10
0
The report does not include any metrics about statistical significance.
R.11
0
The benchmark does not provide any guidance on interpreting results with eval flaws.
R.12
0
The benchmark does not report results of non-AI baselines.
R.13
0
The benchmark does not report results of trivial agents.
Table 9: Assessment Report of tau-Bench (paper, code)
Check
Score
Reason
O.a.1
1
The benchmark uses minimal expressions for substring matching, which is robust to variations in the input.
O.a.2
1
The benchmark uses minimal expressions for substring matching, which is robust to redundant words in the input.
O.b.1
0
The benchmark does not specify how negation modifiers are handled, which may lead to incorrect evaluations.
O.b.2
0
The benchmark does not specify how it handles systematic listing of all possible answers, which may lead to
incorrect evaluations.
O.b.3
0
A part of tasks has empty ground truth, which may lead to guessing.
O.g.1
1
The database after successful completion of a task is unique and includes all states.
O.g.2
1
The state of the database is the only environment state, and it is checked for both relevant and irrelevant parts.
O.g.3
0
A part of tasks has empty ground truth, which may lead to trivial state modifications.
T.1
1
The benchmark does not use external tools.
Continued on next page
22

--- PAGE 23 ---
Table 9: Assessment Report of tau-Bench (paper, code) (Continued)
T.2
1
The benchmark does not use external APIs.
T.3
1
The benchmark does not use external APIs.
T.4
1
Residual data or state are fully cleared between runs by re-initializing the database.
T.5
1
Agents has no access to the file system.
T.6
1
The environment setup is static and does not change over time.
T.7
1
As shown in Section 4 of the paper, the ground truth is manually verified.
T.8
1
As shown in Section 4 of the paper, each task is verified to be solvable by the agent.
T.9
1
The benchmark provides a reference task solution that can be used as an Oracle solver.
T.10
1
No vulnerabilities are found in the implementation of the benchmark, and the evaluation process is secure.
R.1
1
The benchmark is open-sourced and available on GitHub.
R.2
1
The benchmark provides an open-source evaluation harness for users.
R.3
0
The benchmark does not discuss measures to prevent data contamination.
R.4
0
The report does not discuss plans to consistently update tasks over time.
R.5
1
Such a relationship is clearly stated in Section 3 of the paper.
R.6
1
As discussed in Section 5 of the paper, the benchmark is designed to evaluate both the model and the agent
framework.
R.7
1
Appendix A of the paper shows the efforts taken to detect annotation errors.
R.8
1
Section 6 discusses the potential impact of unavoidable flaws, although these discussions are not sufficient.
R.9
0
The report does not include quantitative analysis to assess the impact of unavoidable flaws.
R.10
0
The report does not include any metrics about statistical significance.
R.11
0
The report does not provide any guidance on interpreting results with eval flaws.
R.12
0
The report does not report results of non-AI baselines.
R.13
0
The report does not report results of trivial agents.
Table 10: Assessment Report of MLE-Bench (paper, code)
Check
Score
Reason
O.I.1
1
As described in Section 2.2, the benchmark uses leaderboard positions as a metric, which is not easily exploitable.
T.1
0
The prompt does not specify the versions of important tools, such as Python and Pytorch.
T.2
1
The benchmark does not require any external APIs, and all required tools are accessible to the agent.
T.3
1
The benchmark does not require any external APIs, and the evaluation process does not depend on any external
resources.
T.4
1
There are no residual data or state between runs, as the evaluation is performed in a clean environment.
T.5
1
The submission process is isolated from the agent’s environment, and the agent cannot access any ground truth
information.
T.6
1
The environment setup is static and does not change over time.
T.7
1
The benchmark uses ground truth data from Kaggle, which is a widely used and reliable source for benchmark
datasets.
T.8
1
The benchmark uses previous challenges from Kaggle, which are proven to be solvable with ML algorithms.
T.9
1
Any solution on Kaggle can be considered an Oracle solver.
T.10
1
No vulnerabilities are found in the implementation of the benchmark, and the evaluation process is secure.
R.1
1
The benchmark is open-sourced and available on GitHub.
R.2
1
The benchmark provides an open-source evaluation harness for users.
R.3
1
The benchmark design experiments to measure data contamination and agent plagiarism.
R.4
1
Future plan on regularly update the benchmark with new Kaggle challenges is discussed in Section 6
R.5
1
Such a relationship is clearly stated in Section 2.
R.6
1
As shown in Section 3, the benchmark is designed to evaluate both the model and the agent framework.
R.7
1
The paper discusses the efforts taken to detect cheating in Appendix A.5.
R.8
1
The paper discusses the potential impact of unavoidable flaws in Section 4.
R.9
1
The paper includes quantitative analysis to assess the impact of unavoidable flaws in Appendix A.5.
R.10
1
The paper reports metrics about statistical significance in Section 3.3.
R.11
1
No significant flaws are found in the evaluation process.
Continued on next page
23

--- PAGE 24 ---
Table 10: Assessment Report of MLE-Bench (paper, code) (Continued)
R.12
1
The benchmark directly compares the performance of agents with human experts in the Kaggle challenge submissions.
R.13
0
The benchmark does not report results of trivial agents.
Table 11: Assessment Report of WebArena (paper, code)
Check
Score
Reason
O.a.1
1
As discussed in Section 3.2 of the paper, the benchmark expects the response to follow a standardized format,
which is robust to variations in the input.
O.a.2
1
As discussed in Section 3.2 of the paper, the benchmark expects the response to follow a standardized format,
which is robust to redundant words in the input.
O.b.1
0
The benchmark does not handle negation modifiers, which may lead to incorrect evaluations.
O.b.2
0
The benchmark does not specify how it handles systematic listing of all possible answers, which may lead to
incorrect evaluations.
O.b.3
0
The ground truth is NULL for a part of tasks, which may lead to guessing.
O.c.1
1
The accuracy of the judge is quantitatively evaluated in Appendix A.8 of the paper.
O.c.2
0
The benchmark does not handle adversarial inputs and reward hacking in LLM-as-a-Judge, which may lead to incorrect
evaluations.
O.g.1
1
The ground truth includes all states achievable after success, as discussed in Section 3.2 of the paper.
O.g.2
0
The state check only considers relevant states (e.g., achieved by using a locator as discussed in Section 3.2),
which may lead to incorrect evaluations.
O.g.3
1
As demonstrated in Section 3.2 of the paper, the ground truth is a modification of the underlying database, which
is complex enough to prevent trivial state modifications.
T.1
1
The benchmark does not use tools that require version specification.
T.2
0
The benchmark requires an external API (e.g., a clone of Reddit website) that is not can be inaccessible to agents
during evaluation due to rate limit.
T.3
0
The evaluation process does not handle errors appropriately if the API becomes inaccessible, which may lead to
incorrect evaluations.
T.4
1
The benchmark uses docker containers to isolate the environment, and the state is cleared between runs.
T.5
1
The agent has no access to the file system where the ground truth is stored.
T.6
1
The environment setup is static and does not change over time.
T.7
0
As mentioned in Section 3.2, the ground truth is annotated by two human annotators. However, there isn’t a
mechanism to verify or guarantee the correctness of the annotations.
T.8
0
The ambiguity of the tasks is not fully verified or tested, which may lead to incorrect evaluations.
T.9
0
The benchmark does not include an Oracle solver that can automatically solve all tasks.
T.10
0
A do-nothing agent can pass 4.4R.1
1
The benchmark is open-sour
R.2
1
The benchmark provides an open-source evaluation harness for users.
R.3
0
The benchmark does not discuss measures to prevent data contamination.
R.4
0
The benchmark does not discuss plans to consistently update tasks over time.
R.5
1
Such a relationship is clearly stated in Section 2.1 of the paper.
R.6
1
As shown in Section 5, the benchmark is designed to evaluate LLM models.
R.7
1
Efforts to evaluate LLM-as-a-Judge are discussed in Appendix A.8 of the paper.
R.8
0
The report does not discuss the potential impact of unavoidable flaws.
R.9
0
The report does not include quantitative analysis to assess the impact of unavoidable flaws.
R.10
0
The report does not include any metrics about statistical significance.
R.11
0
The report does not provide any guidance on interpreting results with eval flaws.
R.12
1
The human performance is reported in appendix A.5.
R.13
0
The report does not report results of trivial agents.
Table 12: Assessment Report of GAIA (paper, code)
Check
Score
Reason
Continued on next page
24

--- PAGE 25 ---
Table 12: Assessment Report of GAIA (paper, code) (Continued)
O.h.1
1
As discussed in Section 3.2 of the paper, the specific format required for the answer is provided in the task
description.
O.h.2
1
The ground truth is complex enough to prevent trivial guessing.
T.1
0
The version of tools (e.g., Python and website) is not specified in the paper.
T.2
0
The rate limit of the API is not specified in the paper, which may lead to incorrect evaluations.
T.3
0
The benchmark does not provide a reference harness for handling errors, which may lead to inconsistent evaluations
across different users.
T.4
1
The benchmark does not modify the environment state.
T.5
1
Agents have no access to the ground truth information.
T.6
1
The environment setup is static and does not change over time.
T.7
1
The data annotation process contains a verification step, as discussed in Section 3.4 of the paper.
T.8
1
The data annotation process contains a verification step, as discussed in Section 3.4 of the paper.
T.9
0
The benchmark does not include an Oracle solver that can automatically solve all tasks.
T.10
1
No vulnerabilities are found in the implementation of the benchmark.
R.1
1
The benchmark is open-sourced and available on HuggingFace.
R.2
0
The benchmark does not provide an open-source evaluation harness for users.
R.3
0
The benchmark does not contain measures to prevent data contamination.
R.4
0
The report does not discuss plans to consistently update tasks over time.
R.5
1
Such a relationship is clearly stated in Section 3 of the paper.
R.6
1
As discussed in Section 3 of the paper, the benchmark is designed to evaluate LLM models.
R.7
1
Section 5 of the paper discusses the efforts, including comparing evaluation with or without human in the loop.
R.8
1
Section 6 discusses the potential impact of unavoidable flaws, such as a wrong reasoning trace resulting in a
correct answer.
R.9
0
The report does not include quantitative analysis to assess the impact of unavoidable flaws.
R.10
0
The report does not include any metrics about statistical significance.
R.11
0
The report does not provide any guidance on interpreting results with eval flaws.
R.12
1
Human performance is reported in Section 4 of the paper.
R.13
1
The report includes results of search engine, which can be considered a trivial agent.
Table 13: Assessment Report of OSWorld (paper, code)
Check
Score
Reason
O.g.1
1
As discussed in Section 3.2 of the paper, the ground truth is verified to include all states that can be achieved
after a successful task completion.
O.g.2
0
The state check only verifies the relevant states for the tasks. Agents can potentially perform extra harmful
actions that are not checked by the ground truth.
O.g.3
1
As demonstrated in Section 3.2 of the paper, the ground truth involves complex state changes to a software or
website.
T.1
1
No external tools are used in the benchmark. Versions of the environment are clearly specified in the README file
of the repository.
T.2
1
No external APIs are used in the benchmark.
T.3
1
No external APIs are used in the benchmark.
T.4
1
The benchmark uses virtual machines to run the tasks, which ensures that all residual data or state are cleared
between runs.
T.5
1
Agents and ground truth are isolated from each other via virtual machines.
T.6
0
The benchmark checks for HTML selectors (like class names or page titles) on live web pages.
T.7
1
As discussed in Section 3.2 of the paper, the ground truth is verified for correctness by human experts.
T.8
1
As discussed in Section 3.2 of the paper, each task is verified to be solvable by human experts.
T.9
0
The benchmark does not include an Oracle solver that can automatically solve all tasks.
T.10
1
No vulnerabilities are present in the implementation of the benchmark.
R.1
1
The benchmark is fully open-sourced, as the code is available on GitHub.
R.2
1
The benchmark offers an open-source evaluation harness for users.
R.3
0
The benchmark does not include measures to prevent data contamination.
Continued on next page
25

--- PAGE 26 ---
Table 13: Assessment Report of OSWorld (paper, code) (Continued)
R.4
0
The report does not include measures or plans to consistently update tasks over time.
R.5
1
Such a relationship is clearly stated in Section 2 of the paper.
R.6
1
As discussed in Section 2 of the paper, the evaluation subject is agent frameworks.
R.7
1
As discussed in Section 3.2 of the paper, the benchmark uses additional manual verification steps to prevent,
identify, and correct flaws.
R.8
0
Safety issues of agents are discussed in Section 7 of the paper.
R.9
0
No quantitative analysis to assess the impact of unavoidable flaws is included in the report.
R.10
0
The report does not include metrics about statistical significance.
R.11
0
The report does not provide guidance on interpreting results with eval flaws.
R.12
1
Human performance is reported in Section 3.4 of the paper.
R.13
0
The report does not include results of trivial agents.
Table 14: Assessment Report of KernelBench (paper, code)
Check
Score
Reason
O.e.1
0
The fuzzer does not address potential edge cases, such as empty inputs.
O.e.2
0
Although the data type is specified, the fuzzer does not test different memory layouts, such as tensors with
non-contiguous memory layouts.
O.e.3
0
The fuzzer uses uniform sampling to generate inputs, which may not be sensitive to the code under testing. For
example, the fuzzer may not generate positive inputs that trigger the ‘relu‘ function in the ‘torch‘ library.
T.1
0
The CUDA version is not specified in the default prompt.
T.2
1
External APIs are not required for the evaluation of the benchmark.
T.3
1
External APIs are not required for the evaluation of the benchmark.
T.4
1
Kernels are evaluated in separate processes, and the state is cleared between runs.
T.5
0
The ground-truth kernel is executed first and in the same process as the agent. This may lead to the agent
accessing the ground-truth results by accessing out-of-bound memory.
T.6
1
The environment setup is static and does not change over time.
T.7
1
The ground-truth kernel is provided by PyTorch, which is a widely used library for deep learning.
T.8
1
The implementation from PyTorch is a proof of concept.
T.9
1
The Oracle solver is PyTorch implementation.
T.10
1
No vulnerabilities are found in the implementation of the benchmark.
R.1
1
The benchmark is open-sourced and available on GitHub.
R.2
1
The benchmark provides an open-source evaluation harness for users.
R.3
0
The benchmark does not discuss measures to prevent data contamination.
R.4
0
The benchmark does not discuss plans to consistently update tasks over time.
R.5
1
Section 3 clearly states such a relationship.
R.6
1
Section 5 clearly states that the evaluation subjective of the benchmark is LLM models.
R.7
1
Appendix B.2 describes the efforts taken to prevent, identify, and correct flaws, although these efforts are not
sufficient.
R.8
1
Appendix B.2 includes qualitative discussions of the potential impact of unavoidable flaws, although these
discussions are not sufficient.
R.9
1
Appendix B.2 includes quantitative analysis to assess the impact of unavoidable flaws, although these analyses are
not sufficient.
R.10
0
The benchmark does not report any metrics about statistical significance.
R.11
0
The benchmark does not provide any guidance on interpreting results with eval flaws.
R.12
0
The benchmark does not report results of non-AI baselines.
R.13
0
The benchmark does not report results of trivial agents.
E
Case Study
We present case study of specific issues we identified. For each study, we use an Intel E5-2630 CPU
with 128 GB RAM and optionally 1 NVIDIA H100 80GB for GPU-required experiments. We release
our code at https://github.com/uiuc-kang-lab/agentic-benchmarks.
26

--- PAGE 27 ---
E.1
SWE-bench
Benchmark Overview. SWE-bench is a benchmark for evaluating the ability of AI agents to resolve
real-world GitHub issues. Given the issue description and a summary of the codebase, agents are
tasked with generating a patch that resolves the issue. Each generated patch is evaluated via existing
unit tests in the GitHub repository.
Identified Issue. SWE-bench uses manually written unit tests to evaluate the correctness of a
generated code patch. As illustrated in prior work, UTBoost [87], unit tests can lead to many false
positives, due to the insufficiency of test cases.
Example. The Python package seaborn has an issue in handling missing values in the inputs x and y
when computing polynomial fits using PolyFit(). Unfortunately, the unit test case for PolyFit()
only considers the scenarios when both x and y have missing values:
1 def
test_missing_data (self , df):
2
groupby = GroupBy ([ "group" ])
3
df.iloc [5:10] = np.nan
4
res1 = PolyFit ()( df[[ "x", "y" ]], groupby , "x", {})
5
res2 = PolyFit ()( df[[ "x" , "y" ]]. dropna (), groupby , "x", {})
6
assert_frame_equal ( res1 , res2 )
This insufficient test case for PolyFit() leads to the following incorrect patch for PolyFit() being
evaluated as correct. This patch is generated by IBM SWE-1.0.
1 def
_fit_predict(self , data) :
2
y = data ["y"]. dropna ()
3
x = data ["x"]. dropna ()
4
if x.shape [0] != y.shape [0]:
5
raise
ValueError("x and y must have the same
number of non -
missing
values")
6
if x.nunique ()
<= self.order :
7
# TODO warn ?
8
xx = yy = []
Qualitative Results. As reported in prior work [87], agents can pass evaluations without addressing
the GitHub issues for 5.3% and 7.7% of tasks in the Verified and Lite partitions, respectively. These
tasks lead to 40.9% and 24.4% changes in the leaderboard for the Verified and Lite partitions,
respectively. Furthermore, these tasks causes 2.3% and 1.6% overestimation of agent performance
for the Verified and Lite partitions, respectively.
E.2
τ-bench
Benchmark Overview. τ-bench is for evaluation AI agents capability to interact with human users
and follow domain-specific rules [86]. Given a domain-specific policy, the AI agent is tasked to
interact with human users and answer user queries.
Identified Issue. τ-bench evaluates the agents’ actions based on whether the database state is correct
and optionally whether the agents’ responses contain required text. Therefore, on tasks that do not
change the database state and do not have required texts, agents can get positive evaluation results by
doing nothing. On tasks that do not change the database state and has a trivial required text, such as
"4", agents can get positive evaluation results by returning random responses or all the data.
Example. A task in τ-bench requires agent to process a flight cancellation and refund request. An AI
agent is supposed to check the detail of the booked flight ticket for the user in the database and deny
the user request if the ticket is non-refundable. This task has no required output. Therefore, as long
as the data state does not change, the agent will obtain a positive evaluation result. In this case, an
agent that does nothing can also have a positive evaluation result.
Qualitative Results. A do-nothing agent that returns immediately can achieve a 38% and 6.0%
pass^k or pass@k for any k for Airline and Retail partitions, respectively. A spamming agent that
27

--- PAGE 28 ---
outputs all the data can achieve a 40% and 9.6% pass^k or pass@k for any k for Airline and Retail
partitions, respectively.
E.3
BIRD
Benchmark Overview. BIRD is for evaluating the capability of agents to write SQL queries [37].
Given a query description in natural language, the agent needs to translate it into a SQL query.
Identified Issue. BIRD evaluates agent by comparing the execution results of the ground truth query
with the generated query. However, due to the ambiguity of the query description, there can be
multiple correct queries for the same natural language description.
Example. A task in BIRD asks the agent to write a SQL query that can answer the question: “What
are the name, independence year, and surface area of the country with the smallest population?”
There can be two correct SQL queries:
1 -- Query 1
2 SELECT Name , SurfaceArea , IndepYear
FROM
country
3 WHERE
Population = (SELECT min(Population) FROM
country)
4 -- Query 2
5 SELECT Name , SurfaceArea , IndepYear
FROM
country
6 ORDER BY Population
LIMIT 1
Query 1 outputs all the country with the smallest population, while Query 2 outputs one of the country
with the smallest population. Although the output of two queries are different, they both answer the
question.
E.4
SWE-Lancer
Benchmark Overview. SWE-Lancer is for evaluating the capability of AI agents to independently
implement features and fix bugs. [48] Given a task description, agent needs to use Python scripts to
interact with the file system and modify codebase.
Identified Issue. SWE-Lancer uses end-to-end testing to evaluate the correctness of agents’ imple-
mentation. Although the test cases are stored in a password-protected .zip file, reading the directory
structure and updating files within the .zip file do not require a password. Therefore, an agent can
easily locate the test cases and replace them with a naive one, such as “assert 1==1”.
Qualitative Results. An agent that overwrites the test cases in the .zip file can achieve a 100%
resolve rate without completing the software engineering tasks.
E.5
WebArena
Benchmark Overview. WebArena is for evaluating the capability of agents to interact with the web
[93]. Given a user request, the AI agent need either retrieve the required information or fill the given
data into the web form correctly.
Identified Issue. WebArena uses exact string matching, substring matching, and LLM-as-a-Judge
to evaluate agents. Its strategy of exact string matching cannot handle alternative expressions and
phrase modifiers, while the substring matching is vulnerable to exhaustive enumeration of the content
on the website. Additionally, LLM-as-a-Judge can produce unreliable results.
Example. In WebArena, there is a user query that asks “What is the duration required to first
walk from Massachusetts Institute of Technology to Harvard University, and then drive to Boston
Logan International Airport?” The ground truth answer for this question is 63 minutes. However,
the agent searched the web and output the final answer: “The duration required to first walk from
Massachusetts Institute of Technology to Harvard University is 45 minutes, and then drive to Boston
Logan International Airport is 8 minutes.” The answer of agent gives the duration of 45+8=53
28

--- PAGE 29 ---
minutes, which is different from the ground truth answer. However, the LLM judge considers the
agent’s answer as correct.
E.6
KernelBench
Benchmark Overview. KernelBench is for evaluating the capability of agents to write correct and
efficient GPU kernels [59]. Given the task instruction and the original PyTorch code, agents need to
write PyTorch code containing an inline implementation of the kernel that is functionally correct and
more efficient.
Identified Issue 1. KernelBench uses randomly generated inputs (i.e., fuzzing) to test the correctness
of generated GPU kernels. However, we find the tested functions in a subset of tasks are not sensitive
to uniform random inputs, such as mean(softmax(x)) and relu(x-2).
Identified Issue 2. In the evaluation implementation, KernelBench first runs the ground truth kernel
and then runs the generated kernel subsequently. As reported in prior work [35], agents can potentially
cheat by generating a program that extracts the execution results of the ground truth kernel.
Identified Issue 3. The fuzzer designed in KernelBench fails to address potential inputs with
different memory layouts (e.g., non-contiguous tensors), tensor shapes, and hardware environment.
In the following code snippet, we demonstrate an incorrect kernel function due to improper use of
threads, which were graded as correct in KernelBench. In Line 46, the kernel function accesses
parallel execution results in s_sum with index from tid to nthread. However, when nthread
> normalized_size, this will lead to out-of-bound access into uninitialized memory. Namely, a
thread-safe guard is required here.
1 #include
...
2
3 template <typename
scalar_t >
4 __global__
void
layernorm_forward_kernel_opt (
5
const
scalar_t* __restrict__
input ,
6
const
scalar_t* __restrict__
weight ,
7
const
scalar_t* __restrict__ bias ,
8
const
float eps ,
9
scalar_t* __restrict__
output ,
10
const int
normalized_size ) {
11
12
// Each
block
processes
one outer
instance.
13
int
instance_idx = blockIdx.x;
14
15
// Use 2D thread
indexing to cover the
normalized
dimension
flexibly
.
16
int tid = threadIdx.y * blockDim.x + threadIdx.x;
17
int
nthreads = blockDim.x * blockDim.y;
18
19
// Pointers to the start of this
instance ’s data.
20
const
scalar_t* __restrict__
in_ptr = input + instance_idx *
normalized_size ;
21
scalar_t* __restrict__
out_ptr = output + instance_idx *
normalized_size ;
22
23
using
accscalar_t = at:: acc_type <scalar_t , true >;
24
25
// Each
thread
computes a partial
sum and sum of squares
over a
strided
range.
26
accscalar_t
local_sum = 0;
27
accscalar_t
local_sum_sq = 0;
28
for (int i = tid; i < normalized_size ; i += nthreads) {
29
// Use __ldg for read -only , coalesced
global
memory
access
30
scalar_t
val = __ldg (& in_ptr[i]);
31
accscalar_t
a_val = static_cast <accscalar_t >(val);
32
local_sum += a_val;
33
local_sum_sq += a_val * a_val;
29

--- PAGE 30 ---
34
}
35
36
// Allocate
shared
memory for
reduction: first
part for
partial sums
, second for sum of squares.
37
extern
__shared__
char smem [];
38
accscalar_t* s_sum = reinterpret_cast <accscalar_t *>(smem);
39
accscalar_t* s_sum_sq = s_sum + nthreads;
40
41
s_sum[tid] = local_sum;
42
s_sum_sq[tid] = local_sum_sq ;
43
__syncthreads ();
44
45
// Perform
parallel
reduction in shared
memory.
46
for (int stride = nthreads / 2; stride > 0; stride
>>= 1) {
47
if (tid < stride) {
48
s_sum[tid] += s_sum[tid + stride ];
49
s_sum_sq[tid] += s_sum_sq[tid + stride ];
50
}
51
__syncthreads ();
52
}
53 ...
54 }
To identify such issues in large scale, we applied o3-mini to generate additional test cases. Specifically,
we sampled 3 generated kernel functions for each task in level 1 and asked o3-mini to detect any
possible flaws and write test cases for each detected flaw. Then, we manually verified the correctness
of o3-mini-generated test cases. Finally, we applied these test cases on all generations by Lange et al.
[35]. Our results show that the correctness rate of generated kernels is overestimated by 31%.
F
An Example of Rigorous Benchmark Reporting
In this section, we present a modified reporting example based on BIRD to demonstrate benchmark
reporting that fulfills all the criteria outlined in Figure 4. BIRD is a benchmark for evaluating agents’
capability to translate a natural language query to a SQL query.
R.1. Is fully or at least partially open-sourced.
Example: We released the training and validation dataset of BIRD at https://bird-bench.
github.io/.
R.2. Offers an open-source evaluation harness for users.
Example: We released the harness to evaluation agents on BIRD at https://github.com/
AlibabaResearch/DAMO-ConvAI/tree/main/bird.
R.3. Includes measures to prevent data contamination, such as a private, held-out test set.
Example: We keep a private held-out test set to avoid potential data contamination. Request to
evaluate agents on this test set can be submitted at https://bird-bench.github.io/.
R.4. Includes measures or plans to consistently update challenges over time to avoid overfitting.
Example: We plan to consistently update the database and natural language queries to reflect the
real-world queries and avoid overfitting. Our updates will be available at https://bird-bench.
github.io/.
R.5. Clearly states the relationship between the agent capabilities it aims to evaluate and the constructs
or outcomes it measures.
Example: BIRD evaluates agents’ capabilities to serve as a database interface to translate natural
language queries into executable SQL queries. To achieve that, BIRD provides agents with a natural
language query, the database schema, and SQL-related domain knowledge, and challenges agents to
write a SQL query that can be executed to return correct answers.
30

--- PAGE 31 ---
R.6. Clearly states the evaluation subjective of the benchmark (e.g., a model or an agent framework).
Example: BIRD is designed to evaluate the capability of ML models as well as the performance of
agent frameworks.
R.7. Describes steps taken to prevent, identify, and correct flaws.
Example: We identify that evaluating generated SQL queries using execution results have two
limitations. First, tasks requiring LIMIT queries and containing ties in the data may lead to non-
deterministic execution results. Second, manually annotated ground-truth queries may contain errors.
To understand and mitigate these errors, we randomly sample 500 tasks to perform an additional
phase of verification. After verifying queries, we found 11.65% of ground-truth queries are incorrect.4
R.8. Includes qualitative discussions of the potential impact of unavoidable flaws.
Example: The identified incorrect ground-truth queries and potentially more incorrect ground-truth
queries in the test dataset can lead to estimation errors of the agent performance and incorrect rankings
of agents.
R.9. Includes quantitative analysis to assess the impact of unavoidable flaws (e.g., noise of ground
truth).
Example: We build our quantitative analysis based on the normality assumption. Specifically,
suppose the number of data in the test set N is large enough such that the true success rate (p) of an
agent follows a normal distribution with mean µ and standard deviation σ. Given the ground truth’s
incorrectness rate of e and the estimated agent success rate p0 (based on the imperfect ground truth),
µ and σ are calculated as
µ = e + (1 −2e)p0;
σ2 = µ(1 −µ) = (e + (1 −2e)p0) (1 −e −(1 −2e)p0)
Hence, based on the normality assumption, we can derive a two-sided confidence interval with
confidence α for p as follows:
P

µ −1.96 ×
σ
√
N
≤p ≤µ + 1.96 ×
σ
√
N

≥95%
(1)
Finally, based on the plug-in estimate (11.65%) for the ground truth’s incorrectness rate, we calculate
the confidence interval for the agents’ performance in Table 15.
R.10. Reports metrics about statistical significance, such as confidence intervals.
Example: In additional to accuracy estimate, we also calculate confidence intervals for each model
in Table 15.
R.11. Provides guidance on interpreting results with eval flaws.
Example: Given the potential flaws in BIRD, we do not recommend users to rely on the success rate
alone for decision-making or selecting models. Instead, we suggest using the confidence interval of
the success rate as a reference.
R.12. Reports results of non-AI baselines (e.g., human experts).
Example: We measured the performance of a SQL expert on BIRD, obtaining a success rate of
92.96%.
R.13. Reports results of trivial agents (e.g., one that does nothing).
Example: We performed sanity check on our evaluation harness by measuring the performance of a
trivial agent that does nothing. We find that the trivial agent achieves 0% success rate, confirming the
rigor of our evaluation implementation.
4We used results by Arcwise [7].
31

--- PAGE 32 ---
Table 15: Modified Leaderboards of BIRD [37] with Confidence Intervals.
Method
Dev. Accuracy (%)
Confidence Interval
Original Rank
Possible Rank
CHASE-SQL + Gemini
74.9
[66.8, 71.4]
1
1-13
Contextual-SQL
73.5
[65.7, 70.4]
2
1-16
XiYan-SQL
73.3
[65.6, 70.2]
3
1-18
ExSL + granite-34b-code
72.4
[64.9, 69.6]
4
1-22
Reasoning-SQL-14B
72.3
[64.7, 69.4]
5
1-22
Insights AI
72.2
[64.6, 69.4]
6
1-22
TC-SQL
70.9
[63.7, 68.4]
7
1-27
Infly-RL-SQL-32B
70.1
[63.0, 67.8]
8
1-29
Queryosity
69.4
[62.5, 67.3]
9
1-32
OpenSearch-SQL-v2 + GPT-4o
69.3
[62.4, 67.2]
10
1-32
GenaSQL
69.2
[62.4, 67.2]
11
1-33
OmniSQL-32B
69.2
[62.4, 67.1]
12
1-33
OmniSQL-7B
69.0
[62.2, 67.0]
13
1-33
PB-SQL + GPT-4o
68.6
[61.9, 66.7]
14
2-34
PURPLE + RED + GPT-4o
68.1
[61.5, 66.3]
15
2-34
Arcwise + GPT-4o
68.0
[61.4, 66.2]
16
2-34
Distillery + GPT-4o
67.2
[60.8, 65.6]
17
3-36
RSL-SQL + GPT-4o
67.2
[60.8, 65.6]
18
3-36
XiYanSQL-QwenCoder-32B
67.0
[60.6, 65.5]
19
4-36
RECAP + Gemini
67.0
[60.6, 65.4]
20
4-36
GSR
66.9
[60.5, 65.4]
21
4-36
MSL-SQL + DeepSeek-V2.5
66.8
[60.5, 65.3]
22
4-36
AskData + GPT-4o
65.9
[59.8, 64.6]
23
7-37
E-SQL + GPT-4o
65.6
[59.5, 64.4]
24
7-37
ByteBrain
65.5
[59.4, 64.3]
25
7-37
CHESS
65.0
[59.1, 63.9]
26
7-37
SCL-SQL
64.7
[58.9, 63.7]
27
7-39
EBA-SQL + GPT-4
64.6
[58.8, 63.6]
28
8-39
OeSQL-0.1-Qe-32B
64.6
[58.8, 63.6]
29
8-39
RSL-SQL + DeepSeek-v2
63.6
[58.0, 62.8]
30
9-42
Command-A
63.5
[57.9, 62.8]
31
9-42
MCS-SQL + GPT-4
63.4
[57.8, 62.7]
32
9-42
PURPLE + GPT-4o
63.0
[57.5, 62.4]
33
11-42
GRA-SQL
62.6
[57.2, 62.1]
34
14-44
E-SQL + GPT-4o mini
61.6
[56.4, 61.4]
35
17-46
OpenSearch-SQL-v1 + GPT-4
61.3
[56.2, 61.2]
36
17-46
Dubo-SQL-v1
59.7
[55.0, 59.9]
37
23-49
SuperSQL
58.5
[54.0, 59.0]
38
27-49
SFT CodeS-15B
58.5
[54.0, 59.0]
39
27-49
Chat2Query (GPT-4 + data entity modeling)
58.1
[53.8, 58.7]
40
30-50
MAC-SQL + GPT-4
57.6
[53.3, 58.3]
41
30-50
SFT CodeS-7B
57.2
[53.0, 58.0]
42
30-51
TA-SQL + GPT-4
56.2
[52.3, 57.2]
43
34-51
DeepSeek
56.1
[52.2, 57.2]
44
34-51
DTS-SQL + DeepSeek-7B
55.8
[52.0, 56.9]
45
35-51
SEE
55.5
[51.7, 56.7]
46
35-51
DAIL-SQL + GPT-4
54.8
[51.2, 56.1]
47
37-51
Interactive-T2S
54.6
[51.0, 56.0]
48
37-51
Mistral
53.5
[50.2, 55.2]
49
37-51
ExSL + granite-20b-code
51.7
[48.8, 53.8]
50
40-52
DIN-SQL + GPT-4
50.7
[48.0, 53.1]
51
42-52
Continued on next page
32

--- PAGE 33 ---
Table 15: Modified Leaderboards of BIRD [37] with Confidence Intervals. (Continued)
GPT-4
46.4
[44.7, 49.7]
52
50-53
Claude-2
42.7
[41.9, 46.9]
53
52-54
Open-SQL
37.7
[38.1, 43.0]
54
53-54
Palm-2
27.4
[30.3, 35.0]
55
55-58
ChatGPT + CoT
25.9
[29.2, 33.8]
56
55-58
Codex
25.4
[28.8, 33.5]
57
55-58
ChatGPT
24.1
[27.8, 32.4]
58
55-58
T5-3B
10.4
[17.6, 21.6]
59
59-61
T5-Large
9.7
[17.1, 21.1]
60
59-61
T5-Base
6.3
[14.6, 18.4]
61
59-61
G
NeurIPS Paper Checklist
1. Claims
Question: Do the main claims made in the abstract and introduction accurately reflect the
paper’s contributions and scope?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: Our claimes in the abstract and introduction are justfied in the later sections
and accurately reflect our paper’s contribution and scope.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the abstract and introduction do not include the claims
made in the paper.
• The abstract and/or introduction should clearly state the claims made, including the
contributions made in the paper and important assumptions and limitations. A No or
NA answer to this question will not be perceived well by the reviewers.
• The claims made should match theoretical and experimental results, and reflect how
much the results can be expected to generalize to other settings.
• It is fine to include aspirational goals as motivation as long as it is clear that these goals
are not attained by the paper.
2. Limitations
Question: Does the paper discuss the limitations of the work performed by the authors?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: We included a limitation section in the first section of Appendix (Appendix A)
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper has no limitation while the answer No means that
the paper has limitations, but those are not discussed in the paper.
• The authors are encouraged to create a separate "Limitations" section in their paper.
• The paper should point out any strong assumptions and how robust the results are to
violations of these assumptions (e.g., independence assumptions, noiseless settings,
model well-specification, asymptotic approximations only holding locally). The authors
should reflect on how these assumptions might be violated in practice and what the
implications would be.
• The authors should reflect on the scope of the claims made, e.g., if the approach was
only tested on a few datasets or with a few runs. In general, empirical results often
depend on implicit assumptions, which should be articulated.
• The authors should reflect on the factors that influence the performance of the approach.
For example, a facial recognition algorithm may perform poorly when image resolution
is low or images are taken in low lighting. Or a speech-to-text system might not be
used reliably to provide closed captions for online lectures because it fails to handle
technical jargon.
33

--- PAGE 34 ---
• The authors should discuss the computational efficiency of the proposed algorithms
and how they scale with dataset size.
• If applicable, the authors should discuss possible limitations of their approach to
address problems of privacy and fairness.
• While the authors might fear that complete honesty about limitations might be used by
reviewers as grounds for rejection, a worse outcome might be that reviewers discover
limitations that aren’t acknowledged in the paper. The authors should use their best
judgment and recognize that individual actions in favor of transparency play an impor-
tant role in developing norms that preserve the integrity of the community. Reviewers
will be specifically instructed to not penalize honesty concerning limitations.
3. Theory Assumptions and Proofs
Question: For each theoretical result, does the paper provide the full set of assumptions and
a complete (and correct) proof?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: This work does not propose new theories that need proofs.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include theoretical results.
• All the theorems, formulas, and proofs in the paper should be numbered and cross-
referenced.
• All assumptions should be clearly stated or referenced in the statement of any theorems.
• The proofs can either appear in the main paper or the supplemental material, but if
they appear in the supplemental material, the authors are encouraged to provide a short
proof sketch to provide intuition.
• Inversely, any informal proof provided in the core of the paper should be complemented
by formal proofs provided in appendix or supplemental material.
• Theorems and Lemmas that the proof relies upon should be properly referenced.
4. Experimental Result Reproducibility
Question: Does the paper fully disclose all the information needed to reproduce the main ex-
perimental results of the paper to the extent that it affects the main claims and/or conclusions
of the paper (regardless of whether the code and data are provided or not)?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: The experiment design and code are open-sourced at https://github.com/
uiuc-kang-lab/agentic-benchmarks. Our experimental results are reproducible with
our provided experiment code.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• If the paper includes experiments, a No answer to this question will not be perceived
well by the reviewers: Making the paper reproducible is important, regardless of
whether the code and data are provided or not.
• If the contribution is a dataset and/or model, the authors should describe the steps taken
to make their results reproducible or verifiable.
• Depending on the contribution, reproducibility can be accomplished in various ways.
For example, if the contribution is a novel architecture, describing the architecture fully
might suffice, or if the contribution is a specific model and empirical evaluation, it may
be necessary to either make it possible for others to replicate the model with the same
dataset, or provide access to the model. In general. releasing code and data is often
one good way to accomplish this, but reproducibility can also be provided via detailed
instructions for how to replicate the results, access to a hosted model (e.g., in the case
of a large language model), releasing of a model checkpoint, or other means that are
appropriate to the research performed.
• While NeurIPS does not require releasing code, the conference does require all submis-
sions to provide some reasonable avenue for reproducibility, which may depend on the
nature of the contribution. For example
34

--- PAGE 35 ---
(a) If the contribution is primarily a new algorithm, the paper should make it clear how
to reproduce that algorithm.
(b) If the contribution is primarily a new model architecture, the paper should describe
the architecture clearly and fully.
(c) If the contribution is a new model (e.g., a large language model), then there should
either be a way to access this model for reproducing the results or a way to reproduce
the model (e.g., with an open-source dataset or instructions for how to construct
the dataset).
(d) We recognize that reproducibility may be tricky in some cases, in which case
authors are welcome to describe the particular way they provide for reproducibility.
In the case of closed-source models, it may be that access to the model is limited in
some way (e.g., to registered users), but it should be possible for other researchers
to have some path to reproducing or verifying the results.
5. Open access to data and code
Question: Does the paper provide open access to the data and code, with sufficient instruc-
tions to faithfully reproduce the main experimental results, as described in supplemental
material?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: We provide open-sourced code at https://github.com/uiuc-kang-lab/
agentic-benchmarks and open-source data at https://uiuc-kang-lab.github.io/
agentic-benchmarks/. We include detailed justification to our data in Appendix D.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that paper does not include experiments requiring code.
• Please see the NeurIPS code and data submission guidelines (https://nips.cc/
public/guides/CodeSubmissionPolicy) for more details.
• While we encourage the release of code and data, we understand that this might not be
possible, so “No” is an acceptable answer. Papers cannot be rejected simply for not
including code, unless this is central to the contribution (e.g., for a new open-source
benchmark).
• The instructions should contain the exact command and environment needed to run to
reproduce the results. See the NeurIPS code and data submission guidelines (https:
//nips.cc/public/guides/CodeSubmissionPolicy) for more details.
• The authors should provide instructions on data access and preparation, including how
to access the raw data, preprocessed data, intermediate data, and generated data, etc.
• The authors should provide scripts to reproduce all experimental results for the new
proposed method and baselines. If only a subset of experiments are reproducible, they
should state which ones are omitted from the script and why.
• At submission time, to preserve anonymity, the authors should release anonymized
versions (if applicable).
• Providing as much information as possible in supplemental material (appended to the
paper) is recommended, but including URLs to data and code is permitted.
6. Experimental Setting/Details
Question: Does the paper specify all the training and test details (e.g., data splits, hyper-
parameters, how they were chosen, type of optimizer, etc.) necessary to understand the
results?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: Experiment parameters and details are discussed in Appendix E and included
in our open-source code.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• The experimental setting should be presented in the core of the paper to a level of detail
that is necessary to appreciate the results and make sense of them.
• The full details can be provided either with the code, in appendix, or as supplemental
material.
35

--- PAGE 36 ---
7. Experiment Statistical Significance
Question: Does the paper report error bars suitably and correctly defined or other appropriate
information about the statistical significance of the experiments?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: All reported numbers are deterministic. Our experiments contain no stochastic
elements, so re-running an experiment yields identical outputs; there is therefore no run-to-
run variance on which to base error bars. The evaluation metrics are computed against a
single, fixed set of manual annotations (gold standard). For these reasons we do not report
error bars or p-values; every number in the experiment section is exact and reproducible.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• The authors should answer "Yes" if the results are accompanied by error bars, confi-
dence intervals, or statistical significance tests, at least for the experiments that support
the main claims of the paper.
• The factors of variability that the error bars are capturing should be clearly stated (for
example, train/test split, initialization, random drawing of some parameter, or overall
run with given experimental conditions).
• The method for calculating the error bars should be explained (closed form formula,
call to a library function, bootstrap, etc.)
• The assumptions made should be given (e.g., Normally distributed errors).
• It should be clear whether the error bar is the standard deviation or the standard error
of the mean.
• It is OK to report 1-sigma error bars, but one should state it. The authors should
preferably report a 2-sigma error bar than state that they have a 96% CI, if the hypothesis
of Normality of errors is not verified.
• For asymmetric distributions, the authors should be careful not to show in tables or
figures symmetric error bars that would yield results that are out of range (e.g. negative
error rates).
• If error bars are reported in tables or plots, The authors should explain in the text how
they were calculated and reference the corresponding figures or tables in the text.
8. Experiments Compute Resources
Question: For each experiment, does the paper provide sufficient information on the com-
puter resources (type of compute workers, memory, time of execution) needed to reproduce
the experiments?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: We specify the computer resources to run our experiments in Appendix E.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• The paper should indicate the type of compute workers CPU or GPU, internal cluster,
or cloud provider, including relevant memory and storage.
• The paper should provide the amount of compute required for each of the individual
experimental runs as well as estimate the total compute.
• The paper should disclose whether the full research project required more compute
than the experiments reported in the paper (e.g., preliminary or failed experiments that
didn’t make it into the paper).
9. Code Of Ethics
Question: Does the research conducted in the paper conform, in every respect, with the
NeurIPS Code of Ethics https://neurips.cc/public/EthicsGuidelines?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: We confirm that our paper conform, in every respect, with the NeurIPS Code
of Ethics.
Guidelines:
36

--- PAGE 37 ---
• The answer NA means that the authors have not reviewed the NeurIPS Code of Ethics.
• If the authors answer No, they should explain the special circumstances that require a
deviation from the Code of Ethics.
• The authors should make sure to preserve anonymity (e.g., if there is a special consid-
eration due to laws or regulations in their jurisdiction).
10. Broader Impacts
Question: Does the paper discuss both potential positive societal impacts and negative
societal impacts of the work performed?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: We discuss the potential sociatal impacts of our work in Appendix A
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that there is no societal impact of the work performed.
• If the authors answer NA or No, they should explain why their work has no societal
impact or why the paper does not address societal impact.
• Examples of negative societal impacts include potential malicious or unintended uses
(e.g., disinformation, generating fake profiles, surveillance), fairness considerations
(e.g., deployment of technologies that could make decisions that unfairly impact specific
groups), privacy considerations, and security considerations.
• The conference expects that many papers will be foundational research and not tied
to particular applications, let alone deployments. However, if there is a direct path to
any negative applications, the authors should point it out. For example, it is legitimate
to point out that an improvement in the quality of generative models could be used to
generate deepfakes for disinformation. On the other hand, it is not needed to point out
that a generic algorithm for optimizing neural networks could enable people to train
models that generate Deepfakes faster.
• The authors should consider possible harms that could arise when the technology is
being used as intended and functioning correctly, harms that could arise when the
technology is being used as intended but gives incorrect results, and harms following
from (intentional or unintentional) misuse of the technology.
• If there are negative societal impacts, the authors could also discuss possible mitigation
strategies (e.g., gated release of models, providing defenses in addition to attacks,
mechanisms for monitoring misuse, mechanisms to monitor how a system learns from
feedback over time, improving the efficiency and accessibility of ML).
11. Safeguards
Question: Does the paper describe safeguards that have been put in place for responsible
release of data or models that have a high risk for misuse (e.g., pretrained language models,
image generators, or scraped datasets)?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: Our work does not release data or model that have a high risks for misuse.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper poses no such risks.
• Released models that have a high risk for misuse or dual-use should be released with
necessary safeguards to allow for controlled use of the model, for example by requiring
that users adhere to usage guidelines or restrictions to access the model or implementing
safety filters.
• Datasets that have been scraped from the Internet could pose safety risks. The authors
should describe how they avoided releasing unsafe images.
• We recognize that providing effective safeguards is challenging, and many papers do
not require this, but we encourage authors to take this into account and make a best
faith effort.
12. Licenses for existing assets
37

--- PAGE 38 ---
Question: Are the creators or original owners of assets (e.g., code, data, models), used in
the paper, properly credited and are the license and terms of use explicitly mentioned and
properly respected?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: Our work does not use existing assets.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not use existing assets.
• The authors should cite the original paper that produced the code package or dataset.
• The authors should state which version of the asset is used and, if possible, include a
URL.
• The name of the license (e.g., CC-BY 4.0) should be included for each asset.
• For scraped data from a particular source (e.g., website), the copyright and terms of
service of that source should be provided.
• If assets are released, the license, copyright information, and terms of use in the
package should be provided. For popular datasets, paperswithcode.com/datasets
has curated licenses for some datasets. Their licensing guide can help determine the
license of a dataset.
• For existing datasets that are re-packaged, both the original license and the license of
the derived asset (if it has changed) should be provided.
• If this information is not available online, the authors are encouraged to reach out to
the asset’s creators.
13. New Assets
Question: Are new assets introduced in the paper well documented and is the documentation
provided alongside the assets?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: Our released code are well documented with READMEs.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not release new assets.
• Researchers should communicate the details of the dataset/code/model as part of their
submissions via structured templates. This includes details about training, license,
limitations, etc.
• The paper should discuss whether and how consent was obtained from people whose
asset is used.
• At submission time, remember to anonymize your assets (if applicable). You can either
create an anonymized URL or include an anonymized zip file.
14. Crowdsourcing and Research with Human Subjects
Question: For crowdsourcing experiments and research with human subjects, does the paper
include the full text of instructions given to participants and screenshots, if applicable, as
well as details about compensation (if any)?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: Our paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor human subjects.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor research with
human subjects.
• Including this information in the supplemental material is fine, but if the main contribu-
tion of the paper involves human subjects, then as much detail as possible should be
included in the main paper.
• According to the NeurIPS Code of Ethics, workers involved in data collection, curation,
or other labor should be paid at least the minimum wage in the country of the data
collector.
15. Institutional Review Board (IRB) Approvals or Equivalent for Research with Human
Subjects
38

--- PAGE 39 ---
Question: Does the paper describe potential risks incurred by study participants, whether
such risks were disclosed to the subjects, and whether Institutional Review Board (IRB)
approvals (or an equivalent approval/review based on the requirements of your country or
institution) were obtained?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: Our paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor human subjects.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor research with
human subjects.
• Depending on the country in which research is conducted, IRB approval (or equivalent)
may be required for any human subjects research. If you obtained IRB approval, you
should clearly state this in the paper.
• We recognize that the procedures for this may vary significantly between institutions
and locations, and we expect authors to adhere to the NeurIPS Code of Ethics and the
guidelines for their institution.
• For initial submissions, do not include any information that would break anonymity (if
applicable), such as the institution conducting the review.
39
