--- PAGE 1 ---
PosterForest: Hierarchical Multi-Agent Collaboration
for Scientific Poster Generation
Jiho Choi1*, Seojeong Park1*, Seongjong Song2, Hyunjung Shim1†
1Graduate School of Artificial Intelligence, KAIST, Republic of Korea
2School of Integrated Technology, Yonsei University, Republic of Korea
{jihochoi, seojeong.park, kateshim}@kaist.ac.kr, {bell}@yonsei.ac.kr
Abstract
Automating scientific poster generation re-
quires hierarchical document understanding
and coherent content-layout planning. Exist-
ing methods often rely on flat summarization
or optimize content and layout separately. As
a result, they often suffer from information
loss, weak logical flow, and poor visual bal-
ance. We present PosterForest, a training-free
framework for scientific poster generation. Our
method introduces the Poster Tree, a structured
intermediate representation that captures doc-
ument hierarchy and visual-textual semantics
across multiple levels. Building on this repre-
sentation, content and layout agents perform
hierarchical reasoning and recursive refinement,
progressively optimizing the poster from global
organization to local composition. This joint
optimization improves semantic coherence, log-
ical flow, and visual harmony. Experiments
show that PosterForest outperforms prior meth-
ods in both automatic and human evaluations,
without additional training or domain-specific
supervision.
Code: https://github.com/
kaist-cvml/poster-forest
1
Introduction
With the rapid advancement of science and technol-
ogy, there has been an exponential increase (Han-
son et al., 2024; Larsen and Von Ins, 2010) in the
number of academic papers and technical reports
with complex structures. As these documents are
often difficult to interpret quickly, readers are re-
quired to invest significant time and cognitive re-
sources to understand their main arguments. In this
context, scientific posters have emerged as an effec-
tive medium for summarizing and presenting com-
plex information in a concise and visually intuitive
manner. By combining textual and visual elements,
posters facilitate more accessible communication
of technical content. However, manually crafting
*Equal contribution
†Corresponding author
(a) Paper2Poster
(b) P2P
Figure 1: Limitations of Current SPG Methods. Ex-
isting state-of-the-art scientific poster generation (SPG)
methods, including P2P (Sun et al., 2025) and Pa-
per2Poster (Pang et al., 2025), lack hierarchical docu-
ment understanding, resulting in errors in both content
and layout. (a) shows an example where an experiment
table is incorrectly placed in the conclusion section. (b)
illustrates an overly simplified poster, where paragraphs
are merely summarized and assigned to fixed panels
with fixed-sized figures.
high-quality posters is a labor-intensive process
that requires both domain knowledge and design
expertise (Qiang et al., 2019; Wang et al., 2024).
Automating scientific poster generation (SPG) is
therefore a critical research problem, as it can accel-
erate the dissemination of specialized knowledge
and reduce the burden on researchers.
Pioneering works such as PGM (Qiang et al.,
2016, 2019), NCE (Xu and Wan, 2021), and Post-
Doc (Jaisankar et al., 2024) approached automated
poster generation by extracting text and figures
from scientific documents and heuristically arrang-
ing them within poster panels. However, these ap-
proaches rely on fixed rules and struggle to handle
the complexity of long, structured documents and
the interplay between textual and visual content.
To address this, more recent methods, including
P2P (Sun et al., 2025) and Paper2Poster (Pang et al.,
2025), adopt multi-agent pipelines that decompose
the task into specialized sub-problems such as pars-
ing, content summarization, layout planning, and
rendering. This modular design improves flexibil-
ity and coordination across stages, but typically
requires explicit model training, such as instruction
arXiv:2508.21720v2  [cs.AI]  23 Apr 2026

--- PAGE 2 ---
tuning or regressor-based optimization.
Despite these advances, current approaches suf-
fer from several critical limitations. (1) Shallow
Document Understanding: They primarily de-
pend on surface-level text features, lacking a deep
grasp of the hierarchical structure inherent to sci-
entific documents and the semantic associations
between textual and visual components. Conse-
quently, they often exhibit an interrupted logical
flow and weak integration of visual elements as
in Figure 1 (a), ultimately reducing the effective-
ness of posters in conveying information quickly
and accurately. This limitation significantly in-
creases users’ cognitive load. (2) Weak Content-
Layout Integration: Existing approaches often
adopt a sequential pipeline in which the layout is de-
termined before content placement. This decoupled
strategy overlooks the intrinsic interdependence be-
tween content and layout, treating them as isolated
components rather than pursuing their integrated or-
ganization. As a result, critical content may be trun-
cated or misplaced, and the logical flow between
textual and visual elements is frequently disrupted.
Moreover, as shown in Figure 1 (b), this often re-
sults in posters that are overly simplified and fail
to capture the complexity of the original document,
diminishing their practical value. It diminishes the
practical value of automated poster generation sys-
tems. (3) Training Overhead: Existing methods
requiring instruction tuning or regression training
pipelines add complexity and resource demands,
limiting practical deployment.
In this study, we aim to address these limita-
tions, which overlook both the hierarchical orga-
nization of scientific documents and the seman-
tic alignment between content and layout. Such
limitations hinder holistic understanding and often
result in reduced clarity, visual incoherence, and
discrepancies between visual elements and their ex-
planatory context. To address these limitations, we
present PosterForest, a novel framework with two
core components. For limitation (1), we introduce
the Poster Tree, a hierarchical intermediate repre-
sentation. It prunes and merges document content
across the section–subsection–paragraph hierarchy
to preserve salient information while reducing re-
dundancy, and explicitly links text with figures and
tables. Each node jointly encodes content and
layout attributes. This representation, tailored for
scientific poster generation, preserves logical flow
and strengthens text–visual associations.
For limitation (2), we propose hierarchical mod-
ification planning with multi-agent collaboration.
Scientific poster generation requires balancing mul-
tiple interdependent objectives, such as content
fidelity, layout efficiency, and visual coherence,
which are difficult to optimize jointly within a sin-
gle reasoning process. To address this, we decom-
pose the task into specialized roles and employ mul-
tiple agents that focus on complementary aspects,
including content summarization, layout planning,
and visual material placement across different lev-
els of the hierarchy. Through iterative coordination
and feedback, these agents collaboratively refine
the Poster Tree, enabling effective joint optimiza-
tion of both content and structure. This results in vi-
sually balanced and semantically coherent posters
with improved integration of textual and visual in-
formation. Finally, addressing limitation (3), the
proposed pipeline is training-free and relies only on
standard APIs and publicly available checkpoints,
enabling practical deployment.
Overall, PosterForest delivers high-quality sum-
marization, visual coherence, and consistent infor-
mation flow, overcoming the limitations of prior
methods. Extensive experiments show that our
method consistently outperforms prior approaches
in both automatic and human evaluations, achiev-
ing up to 59.2% preference in human studies (vs.
27.2% for prior work) while remaining training-
free.
2
Related Work
Scientific Poster Generation. Although generic
(i.e., movie, commercial) poster generation is a per-
vasively researched topic (Gupta et al., 2021; Li
et al., 2020; Zheng et al., 2023; Inoue et al., 2023;
Gao et al., 2025; Hsu and Peng, 2025), scientific
poster generation is more challenging and crucial
due to its deliverability of extensive information
and reasoning. It has been studied as a layout-
driven summarization problem (Qiang et al., 2016,
2019), where key elements such as panel size, posi-
tion, and hierarchy are learned from examples. Ear-
lier work, such as Xu and Wan (2021), emphasized
the importance of content extraction, proposing a
pipeline to select representative text and visuals.
An instruction-tuning based P2P (Sun et al., 2025)
and a regressor fitting-based Paper2Poster (Pang
et al., 2025) are recent approaches of introducing
LLM-based multi-agent frameworks to handle pars-
ing, planning, and rendering in a modular way, ex-
tending the framework to generate slides such as

--- PAGE 3 ---
Hierarchical Paper-to-Poster
Docling 
MLLM 
Document 
Document
Raw Doc Tree 𝑻𝑹𝒂𝒘 
Pruning 
Merging 
Asset
Matching 
𝑨𝑹𝒆𝒇𝒊𝒏𝒆 
sec
sec
cont
cont
cont
cont
cont
subsec
subsec
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
row
0.7
col
0.5
row
0.6
row
0.5
P5
P2
P1
P4
P3
Layout Tree 𝑻𝑳𝒂𝒚𝒐𝒖𝒕 
Hierarchical Modification Planning
Content Tree 𝑻𝑪𝒐𝒏𝒕𝒆𝒏𝒕 
row
0.7
sec
sec
col
0.5
row
0.6
sub
sec
sub
sec
cont
cont
cont
cont
row
0.5
cont
(Initial) Poster 
(Initial) Poster Tree 𝑻𝑷𝒐𝒔𝒕𝒆𝒓
(𝟎)
 
Render
Multi-Agent Collaboration 
Layout
Agent
Content
Agent
Feedback
Agent
Iterative modification
with tree traversal
To convey information clearly 
within the limited space, I 
found overlap with a sibling 
node. Remove the redundant 
part from this content node.
The figure is too 
small and the overall 
layout lacks visual 
balance.
Expand the upper panel!
cont
row
0.5
cont
(Refined) Poster Tree 𝑻𝑷𝒐𝒔𝒕𝒆𝒓
(𝒌)
 
(Refined) Poster 
row
0.6
sec
sec
col
0.3
row
0.7
sub
sec
sub
sec
cont
cont
cont
cont
row
0.7
cont
Render
Figure 2: Overview of PosterForest. PosterForest first constructs a hierarchical Poster Tree that integrates document
semantics and layout (Section 3.2), then iteratively refines it through collaboration between agents to optimize
structure and visual coherence (Section 3.3).
PPTAgent (Zheng et al., 2025). These methods are
supported by new benchmarks (Wang et al., 2024;
Saxena et al., 2025) and evaluation protocols uti-
lizing vision-language models (Lee et al., 2024),
enabling fine-grained assessment of visual coher-
ence and content fidelity. While these approaches
achieve baseline-level automation, they often treat
sections independently, simply mapping them to
panels. As a result, the semantic flow and hierarchi-
cal connections across sections in the original paper
are not well preserved in the generated poster.
Hierarchical Document Parsing and Under-
standing. Scientific poster generation requires a
robust understanding of document structure and
content, compared to naive rank-based text extrac-
tion (Mihalcea and Tarau, 2004). Early approaches
to document understanding leveraged hierarchical
parsing methods, such as DocParser (Rausch et al.,
2021) and PDF-to-Tree (Zhang et al., 2024a), to
recover logical section structures from rendered
pages. These techniques enable semantic segmen-
tation of long documents, which is crucial for
downstream tasks like summarization and visual-
ization. More recent works employ pre-trained
multimodal models (Huang et al., 2022; Lin et al.,
2023) or graph-based representations (Gemelli
et al., 2022) to jointly model textual and visual ele-
ments. OWL (Hu et al., 2025) integrates multiple
LLMs for reasoning and understanding documents.
Such advances form the basis for extracting salient
content needed for poster generation.
Multi-Agent Reasoning and Collaboration.
Single-agent reasoning techniques such as Chain-
of-Thought (CoT) (Wei et al., 2022) and its vari-
ations (Yao et al., 2023; Besta et al., 2024; Chen
et al., 2022; Gao et al., 2023) enabled logical think-
ing of models, representatively academic (Team
et al., 2024; Zhang et al., 2023) and mathematical
(Shao et al., 2024) reasoning. Recent researches
take a step forward and explore multi-agent col-
laboration to further enhance problem-solving ca-
pabilities. Instead of relying on a single reason-
ing path, multi-agent systems assign specialized
roles to LLM agents and promote iterative feed-
back, critique, and coordination (Li et al., 2023;
Zhang et al., 2024b; Hong et al., 2023; Tran et al.,
2025; Li et al., 2024), successfully simulating col-
laborative software engineers (Qian et al., 2023), or
peer-reviewers of scientific papers (Yu et al., 2024)
even generating code from papers (Seo et al., 2025).
In the poster generation, this paradigm enables spe-
cialized agents to perform document analysis, con-
tent summarization, and layout composition (Sun
et al., 2025; Pang et al., 2025).
3
Proposed Method
3.1
Preliminaries
Recent advances in scientific poster generation
(SPG), including P2P (Sun et al., 2025) and Pa-
per2Poster (Pang et al., 2025), have introduced
multi-agent pipelines that automatically synthesize
posters from research papers. These methods lever-
age multimodal large language models (MLLMs),
such as GPT-4 (Achiam et al., 2023) and Qwen (Bai
et al., 2023), to extract textual and visual content,
summarize key information, and organize it into
structured panel layouts.

--- PAGE 4 ---
Among them, Paper2Poster adopts a modular
approach. It comprises: (a) a parser that constructs
an asset library of textual and visual elements, (b) a
planner that matches text content with relevant fig-
ures and tables, and (c) a painter-commenter loop
that iteratively refines contents inside the panel
through vision-language feedback. P2P further
leverages instruction tuning to enhance coordina-
tion among multiple agents, whereas Paper2Poster
employs regressor-based learning to optimize con-
tent arrangement and visual composition.
Despite their effectiveness, existing approaches
typically treat scientific papers as linear text
sequences, disregarding structural relationships
among textual units and semantic alignment be-
tween text and visuals. Consequently, they cap-
ture only shallow associations within and across
modalities. Structural cues such as section and sub-
section boundaries, paragraph-level semantics, and
cross-references to figures and tables are often un-
derutilized or entirely ignored. These limitations
result in logical discontinuities across the content
and weakened correspondence among different el-
ements, ultimately diminishing overall clarity and
informativeness.
To address these limitations, we introduce
PosterForest, a training-free framework for SPG.
PosterForest operates in two main stages: (1) con-
structing a hierarchical Poster Tree that jointly
encodes the document’s semantic content and the
poster’s layout structure, and (2) iteratively refin-
ing this Poster Tree through multi-agent collabora-
tion between specialized content and layout experts.
The following sections provide a detailed descrip-
tion of each stage.
3.2
Hierarchical Paper-to-Poster
Given an input paper (or document) D, we first
parse it into a Raw Doc Tree, TRaw. We define
TRaw = (VRaw, ERaw) as a rooted tree that rep-
resents the structural hierarchy of the document
contents. Each node v ∈VRaw corresponds to
a document element such as title, section, sub-
section, paragraph, figure, or table, which con-
tains its raw semantic content. Each directed edge
(u →v) ∈ERaw denotes a parent–child relation,
indicating that v is a subcomponent of u in the hier-
archy. Let AParser be a parsing agent that extracts
this structure as:
TRaw = APARSE(D) .
(1)
The resulting tree explicitly captures both hierarchi-
cal organization and referential links, ensuring that
figures and tables appear as children of the textual
nodes that reference them.
We then refine TRaw into a Content Tree,
TContent = (VContent, EContent), which preserves
the essential information to construct a scientific
poster. Guided by the MLLM agent, this process
involves pruning less important nodes, merging re-
dundant or closely related content, and summariz-
ing lengthy textual content, ensuring the resulting
structure remains concise, coherent, and focused
on key information. During this process, the node-
edge relationships are updated to reflect the revised
structure. Let ARefine be a content refinement agent
that performs these operations as:
TContent = AREFINE(TRaw).
(2)
In TContent, each node corresponds to a concise
textual unit or a visual asset (e.g., figures and ta-
bles), with minor details removed.
Each node
c ∈VContent is represented as c = (t, s) with
t ∈Tsemantic denoting the semantic type (e.g., para-
graph, figure, table) and s ∈Ssemantic denoting
the semantic content (summarized text, caption, or
visual data). This produces a compact and informa-
tive representation tailored for poster generation.
Based on the Content Tree, we establish a Lay-
out Tree, TLayout = (VLayout, ELayout), which
specifies the poster’s spatial organization. The Lay-
out Tree follows a widely adopted approach (Qiang
et al., 2016, 2019; Pang et al., 2025) in poster layout
modeling, where the canvas is hierarchically parti-
tioned into regions organized by rows and columns.
Unlike previous methods that derive such structures
directly from the document layout, our Layout Tree
is initialized from TContent, inheriting the hierar-
chical relationships among content elements, and
aligning the layout with the intended content struc-
ture of the poster as:
TLayout = OLAYOUT_INIT(TContent).
(3)
Each layout node l ∈VLayout is represented as
l = (r, x) with r ∈Rspatial (region type: row
split, column split, panel) and x ∈Xspatial (spa-
tial attributes: normalized position, width, height,
aspect ratio). The initial allocation of regions is
deterministically derived from content statistics.
Finally, we integrate content and layout into a
unified representation, the Poster Tree, TPoster.
We define TPoster = (VPoster, EPoster) by merging

--- PAGE 5 ---
sub
sec
cont
row
0.6
col
0.3
row
0.7
row
0.7
sec
sec
sub
sec
cont
cont
cont
cont
row
0.7
col
0.5
row
0.6
row
0.5
sec
sec
sub
sec
sub
sec
cont
cont
cont
cont
cont
row
0.6
col
0.5
row
0.6
row
0.5
sec
sec
sub
sec
sub
sec
cont
cont
cont
cont
cont
row
0.6
col
0.3
row
0.6
row
0.5
sec
sec
sub
sec
sub
sec
cont
cont
cont
cont
cont
Figure 3: Poster Tree Traversal (Node-level). The
Poster Tree and layout are iteratively updated through
the shared decision of the layout and Content Agent.
the Content Tree, TContent, and the Layout Tree,
TLayout, where each semantic node is mapped to a
spatial region of the poster as:
TPoster = OMERGE
 TContent, TLayout

.
(4)
Each poster node w ∈VPoster is a heterogeneous
node that jointly encodes semantic attributes (e.g., a
summarized paragraph or key visual element from
TContent) and spatial attributes placement from
TLayout. The merge operation aligns the hierarchi-
cal structure of the content with the corresponding
layout partition, producing nodes that specify both
what information is displayed and where and how
it appears on the canvas. This unified tree represen-
tation provides an inductive bias tailored for poster
generation, as it tightly couples the logical docu-
ment hierarchy with the visual layout structure.
3.3
Hierarchical Modification Planning
After constructing the initial Poster Tree, T (0)
poster,
we introduce a hierarchical refinement phase that
is designed to jointly optimize both content quality
and layout organization. In contrast to prior meth-
ods (Sun et al., 2025; Pang et al., 2025) that fix the
layout and subsequently adjust only the content,
our approach traverses the heterogeneous nodes
in Poster Tree and performs node-specific updates
by leveraging both local attributes and hierarchical
context, while further incorporating global evalua-
tion to achieve a more coherent and polished final
result.
3.3.1
Poster Tree Traversal (Node-level)
Given the initialized Poster Tree, T (0)
Poster, refine-
ment begins through a hierarchical traversal from
the root toward the leaves. Each node is updated
by jointly considering its intrinsic attributes, the
propagated information from its parent, and the
structural context defined by its descendants. This
top-down propagation ensures that modifications
applied at higher levels are consistently reflected
throughout the tree.
Layout Agent.
For each layout node li ∈VPoster,
the Layout Agent, ALAYOUT optimizes geometric
attributes such as region ratios, alignment, and spa-
tial distribution. The optimization is performed by
aggregating the structural and semantic statistics of
all descendant nodes as:
l(t+1)
i
= ALAYOUT
 l(t)
i , ˜P(l(t)
i ), D(l(t)
i )

,
(5)
where ˜P(li) represents the updated information
of the parent node after its refinement, and D(li)
denotes the set of all descendants of li.
Content Agent.
For each content node ci ∈
VPoster, ACONTENT refines textual density and se-
mantic abstraction by referencing both the updated
configuration of its parent layout node and the de-
scendant layout context of that parent:
c(t+1)
i
= ACONTENT
 c(t)
i , ˜P(c(t)
i ), D(P(c(t)
i ))}

,
(6)
where ˜P(ci) represents the updated information of
the parent node after its refinement, and D(P(ci))
denotes the set of all descendants of the parent node
of ci. This hierarchical dependency allows local
content updates to reflect global layout constraints
and parent-level refinements.
The traversal proceeds until every node has been
updated once, yielding an intermediate tree T (t+1)
Poster
that captures coherent modifications across both
spatial and semantic dimensions. The resulting
representation serves as the basis for subsequent
global evaluation.
3.3.2
Iterative Tree Refinement (Tree-level)
After completing full node-level traversal, Poster-
Forest performs iterative refinement at the tree level
to progressively enhance the overall poster struc-
ture. Each tree-level iteration corresponds to a
complete pass of node-level updates, resulting in a
refined Poster Tree that jointly enhances semantic
clarity and spatial organization. This process may
be repeated up to a maximum of K iterations to
incrementally enhance layout quality and content
coherence. In practice, we set K = 2, which em-
pirically yields stable and visually balanced results
with a single additional refinement step.
Global Feedback Agent.
At each iteration t,
the rendering of the current Poster Tree T (t)
Poster
is evaluated by a multimodal large language model

--- PAGE 6 ---
(MLLM) acting as a Global Feedback Agent, de-
noted as AFEEDBACK.
This agent analyzes the
poster’s visual organization, textual structure, and
hierarchical balance, and provides structured global
feedback to determine whether an additional tree-
level traversal should be executed:
 ˆF(t)
GLOBAL, π(t)
CONTINUE

= AFEEDBACK
 T (t)
Poster

,
(7)
where ˆF(t)
GLOBAL denotes the structured global feed-
back extracted from the MLLM, and π(t)
CONTINUE ∈
{0, 1} is a binary signal indicating whether another
refinement iteration should be performed.
If π(t)
CONTINUE = 1, the next tree-level traversal is
triggered using the propagated feedback:
T (t+1)
Poster = OTRAVERSE
 T (t)
Poster, ˆF(t)
GLOBAL

,
(8)
where OTRAVERSE denotes one complete pass of the
propagation-based node-level refinement defined
in Equation (5) and Equation (6). Otherwise, the
iterative refinement loop terminates, and the final
Poster Tree is obtained as T ∗
Poster = T (t)
Poster.
4
Experiments
4.1
Experimental Setup
Baselines. Following the evaluation protocols of
P2P (Sun et al., 2025) and Paper2Poster (Pang
et al., 2025), we compare four categories of base-
line methods. First, Oracle methods represent up-
per bounds. The original Paper represents the up-
per bound for content fidelity, while the author-
created GT Poster indicates the optimal layout
and clarity achievable by human experts. Second,
end-to-end methods employ GPT-4o to generate
posters directly. Specifically, GPT-4o-HTML ren-
ders posters by converting the paper into HTML,
whereas GPT-4o-Image produces poster images in
a single step using GPT-4o. Third, multi-agent
workflows encompass general-purpose converters
and algorithmic generators. For this category, we
evaluate the PDF-to-HTML conversion toolkit of
OWL (Hu et al., 2025) and Python-pptx conversion
results of PPTAgent. Finally, poster-specialized
agents include P2P (Sun et al., 2025), Paper2Poster,
and our proposed method. To ensure that visual
factors did not influence qualitative evaluations and
user studies, we standardized the color scheme and
font across all posters.
Datasets. For quantitative evaluation, we used
the 100 paper–poster pairs provided by the Pa-
per2Poster benchmark (Pang et al., 2025), which
is an extension of the PosterSum dataset (Sax-
ena et al., 2025). For qualitative results and user
studies, we additionally collected 15 recent pa-
per–poster pairs from the AI conferences (e.g.,
NeurIPS, CVPR, and ACL). More comprehensive
experimental details are provided in the Appendix.
Implementation Details. For further details re-
garding model architecture and evaluation proto-
cols, please refer to the Appendix.
4.2
Qualitative Evaluation
In Figure 4, we compare our method with state-of-
the-art baselines, P2P and Paper2Poster, and the
poster made by the authors (Ground Truth). All ex-
periments were conducted using the GPT-4o frame-
work to ensure consistency in model performance.
Our approach dynamically adjusts column widths
and panel sizes, resulting in a balanced distribution
of content. Compared to P2P and Paper2Poster, our
method makes more efficient use of space, prevents
the inclusion of oversized or undersized figures,
and avoids excessively long or verbose paragraphs
through strategic hierarchical organization. No-
tably, our method excels at preserving information:
for the VAR paper (4th row), both P2P and Pa-
per2Poster omit either the result table or graph,
whereas our method retains both, ensuring that crit-
ical information is maintained. Furthermore, our
approach demonstrates robust performance across
diverse paper formats and academic domains, as
illustrated by the examples from 3D Vision-ECCV
(1st row), Language Processing-ACL (2nd row),
and Reinforcement Learning-ICML (3rd row).
4.3
Quantitative Evaluation
Following the evaluation protocol introduced in
P2P and Paper2Poster, we employ MLLM-as-a-
Judge metrics for quantitative evaluation. The GPT-
4o model is prompted to act as six independent
judges, each assigning a score from 1 to 5 based on
the following criteria: element quality, layout bal-
ance, engagement, clarity, content completeness,
and logical flow. The first three criteria assess
aesthetics, while the latter three evaluate the in-
formativeness of the generated poster. As shown
in Table 1, the judges indicate that our method
is comparable to other baselines in terms of aes-
thetics, and demonstrates superior performance in
informativeness. Importantly, these scores are the
closest to those of the author-created ground truth
posters (GT), demonstrating the effectiveness of
our approach. Details of the MLLM-as-a-Judge are

--- PAGE 7 ---
(a) GT
(b) P2P
(c) Paper2Poster
(d) PosterForest (Ours)
Figure 4: Qualitative Comparison. Posters generated by the SoTA baseline methods and PosterForest, based on
papers from various AI fields (NLP, CV, RL), along with the original posters (GT) designed by the authors.
provided in the supplementary material.
While MLLM-based evaluation provides a scal-
able and objective means for poster assessment,
it still has inherent limitations in fully capturing
subjective preferences and subtle qualities valued
by human readers. Therefore, to complement the
quantitative results, we further conduct a user study
to obtain human judgments and validate the practi-
cal effectiveness of our method.
4.4
User Study
To conduct a user study to evaluate poster quality
from a human perspective, we recruited 25 partic-
ipants, all of whom were graduate students in the
field of AI and had participated in scientific confer-
ences. The study uses 10 sets (40 questions in total),
each consisting of a group of posters and four eval-
uation questions. Each poster group is generated
with four GPT-4o-based methods: 4o-HTML, P2P,
Paper2Poster, and our proposed method. For each
set, participants are asked to select one poster per
Model
TF
Aesthetic Score ↑
Information Score ↑
Overall ↑
Elem.
Lay.
Eng.
Avg.
Cla.
Cont.
Logic
Avg.
Paper
-
4.05
3.89
2.80
3.58
4.00
4.68
3.98
4.22
3.90
GT Poster
-
4.07
3.90
2.70
3.56
4.09
3.96
3.89
3.98
3.77
4o-HTML
✔
3.53
3.82
2.72
3.36
3.94
3.64
3.47
3.68
3.52
4o-Image
✔
2.93
3.02
2.75
2.90
1.05
2.04
2.22
1.77
2.33
OWL-4o
✔
2.76
3.62
2.56
2.98
3.92
2.89
3.36
3.39
3.19
PPTAgent-4o
✔
2.49
3.05
2.45
2.66
2.05
1.26
1.38
1.56
2.11
P2P-4o
✘
3.63
4.01
2.96
3.91
3.80
3.99
3.48
3.94
3.72
PosterAgent-Qwen
✘
3.93
3.67
2.89
3.50
3.95
3.85
3.68
3.83
3.66
PosterAgent-4o
✘
3.95
3.86
2.93
3.58
4.03
3.96
3.60
3.86
3.72
PosterForest-Qwen (Ours)
✔
4.02
3.85
2.99
3.62
3.98
3.93
3.54
3.82
3.72
PosterForest-4o (Ours)
✔
4.02
3.96
2.96
3.65
4.00
3.88
3.71
3.87
3.76
Table 1: MLLM-as-a-Judge score across four cat-
egories of baselines. The average score serves as a
fine-grained assessment of 6 different perspectives. The
best score is bold, and the second is underlined for each
criterion. “TF” denotes Training-free methods.
question based on the following criteria: (1) con-
tent fidelity, which poster best reflects the content
of the paper; (2) aesthetic quality, which poster is
the most visually harmonious; (3) structural clarity,
which poster delivers information in the most struc-
turally effective way; and (4) overall quality, which
poster appears most complete and well-polished
overall. As shown in Table 2, our proposed method

--- PAGE 8 ---
(a) Base
(b) Only Content Agent
(c) Only Layout Agent
(d) Both Agents
Figure 5: Effect of Content and Layout Agents. Using both agents balances layout (orange) and removes
redundancy (magenta), yielding well-organized posters with proper information density and strong visual harmony.
Method
Content
Esthetics
Structure
Overall
4o-HTML
2.0 %
1.6 %
2.4 %
1.6 %
P2P
9.2 %
21.2 %
13.2 %
12.0 %
Paper2Poster
32.8 %
24.0 %
24.8 %
27.2 %
Ours
56.0 %
53.2 %
59.6 %
59.2 %
Table 2: Human Evaluation. Numbers represent the
proportion of times each method was ranked first for
each criterion.
is strongly preferred over the other SoTA baselines
across all four criteria. Please refer to the Appendix
for further details on the user study.
4.5
Ablation Study
4.5.1
Effect of Hierarchical Content Tree
We conducted an ablation study to analyze the im-
pact of incorporating hierarchical structure into the
Content Tree, Tcontent, during content generation.
When the hierarchical organization is omitted, as
shown in Figure 6 (a), sections and subsections are
often disordered or mixed together on the poster.
This results in a loss of semantic grouping and spa-
tial coherence between related elements such as
figures and explanatory text. In contrast, applying
hierarchical parsing, as in Figure 6 (b), preserves
the logical relationships between sections and sub-
sections, ensuring that related content is grouped
and displayed in a consistent and interpretable man-
ner. This hierarchical structure enhances both the
readability and spatial cohesion of the generated
poster, supporting more effective information de-
livery.
4.5.2
Effect of Content and Layout Agents
To evaluate the effectiveness of the multi-agent
collaboration, we conducted an ablation study by
Root
|-- Section 1
|-- Subsection 1.1
|-- Section 2
|-- Subsection 2.1
|-- Subsection 2.2
Root
|-- Section 1
|
`-- Subsection 1.1
`-- Section 2
|
|-- Subsection 2.1
|
`-- Subsection 2.2
(a) w/o Hierarchical
(b) w/ Hierarchical
Figure 6: Effect of Hierarchical Content Tree. With
a hierarchical structure, logical order and spatial coher-
ence are preserved (orange) and text–visual alignment
improves; the performance table appears under Experi-
ments rather than Introduction (magenta).
comparing four configurations: (a) the base model
with only the initial Poster Tree, (b) Content Agent
only, (c) Layout Agent only, and (d) both agents
combined. The Content Agent prunes cross-node
redundancy and right-sizes the remaining text to
the layout, as shown in Figure 5(b), but often leads
to suboptimal panel arrangements and unbalanced
layouts. In contrast, the Layout Agent focuses on
optimizing the spatial arrangement at the layout
level. As illustrated in Figure 5 (c), this configura-
tion achieves improved visual organization, but sub-
optimal figure scaling and text overflow frequently
occur due to the lack of content adjustment. When
both agents are used together, as shown in Figure 5

--- PAGE 9 ---
(d), the system effectively addresses both content
redundancy and layout imbalance, producing well-
organized posters with appropriate information den-
sity and visual harmony. These results confirm that
the joint use of Content and Layout Agents is es-
sential for achieving both semantic and structural
quality in automated poster generation.
5
Conclusion
This work proposed PosterForest, a hierarchical
multi-agent framework for scientific poster gener-
ation that explicitly models the interplay between
document structure and layout design. The pro-
posed Poster Tree serves as a unified intermediate
representation, enabling integrated reasoning over
semantic and spatial attributes. Through hierar-
chical refinement driven by Content and Layout
Agents, our method dynamically balances infor-
mation density and visual harmony without any
training or dataset-specific tuning. Empirical re-
sults and user studies confirm that PosterForest
substantially outperforms prior methods in infor-
mativeness, clarity, and structural quality.
Limitations
While PosterForest demonstrates significant im-
provements, certain limitations persist. First, gen-
erated posters may not always achieve optimal con-
tent density, which can lead to less efficient space
utilization. Second, the lack of robust quality met-
rics may limit the comprehensiveness of quantita-
tive evaluation, highlighting the need for further
development of advanced evaluation methodolo-
gies in future research. Detailed failure cases and
future directions are provided in the supplementary
material.
Ethical Considerations
We rely only on officially released, publicly acces-
sible models and APIs. In all experiments, we call
GPT-4o through OpenAI’s official interface, and
we also use publicly available Qwen checkpoints
where noted. We do not fine-tune any models. Our
framework is training-free and used strictly within
the terms of the providers’ licenses. Source papers
and posters are analyzed solely for non-commercial
research under practices consistent with academic
fair use, and we include references to the origi-
nal sources to respect creator rights. Our human
evaluation recruits 25 graduate-level participants
with prior conference experience; assessments con-
cern posters only, and no personal attributes are
collected or analyzed. An AI assistant was used
for sentence-level drafting and refining to improve
clarity.
Acknowledgments
This work was supported by Samsung Research,
Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.; the Basic Science
Research Program through the National Research
Foundation of Korea (NRF) funded by the Korea
government (MSIT) (No. RS-2025-00520207); In-
stitute of Information & Communications Technol-
ogy Planning & Evaluation (IITP) grants funded
by the Korea government (MSIT) (Nos. RS-2024-
00457882, 2022-0-01045, 2022-0-00680); the Ad-
vanced GPU Utilization Support Program funded
by the Government of the Republic of Korea (Min-
istry of Science and ICT); and a grant partly sup-
ported by both IITP (MSIT) and Korea Evaluation
Institute of Industrial Technology (KEIT) (MOTIE)
(No. RS-2025-02217259).
References
Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama
Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni Aleman,
Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman,
Shyamal Anadkat, and 1 others. 2023. Gpt-4 techni-
cal report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774.
Jinze Bai, Shuai Bai, Yunfei Chu, Zeyu Cui, Kai Dang,
Xiaodong Deng, Yang Fan, Wenbin Ge, Yu Han, Fei
Huang, and 1 others. 2023. Qwen technical report.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.16609.
Maciej Besta, Nils Blach, Ales Kubicek, Robert Gersten-
berger, Michal Podstawski, Lukas Gianinazzi, Joanna
Gajda, Tomasz Lehmann, Hubert Niewiadomski, Pi-
otr Nyczyk, and 1 others. 2024. Graph of thoughts:
Solving elaborate problems with large language mod-
els. In Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artifi-
cial intelligence, volume 38, pages 17682–17690.
Wenhu Chen, Xueguang Ma, Xinyi Wang, and
William W Cohen. 2022.
Program of thoughts
prompting: Disentangling computation from reason-
ing for numerical reasoning tasks. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2211.12588.
Luyu Gao, Aman Madaan, Shuyan Zhou, Uri Alon,
Pengfei Liu, Yiming Yang, Jamie Callan, and Gra-
ham Neubig. 2023. Pal: Program-aided language
models. In International Conference on Machine
Learning, pages 10764–10799. PMLR.
Yifan Gao, Zihang Lin, Chuanbin Liu, Min Zhou,
Tiezheng Ge, Bo Zheng, and Hongtao Xie. 2025.
Postermaker: Towards high-quality product poster

--- PAGE 10 ---
generation with accurate text rendering. In Proceed-
ings of the Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
Conference, pages 8083–8093.
Andrea Gemelli, Sanket Biswas, Enrico Civitelli, Josep
Lladós, and Simone Marinai. 2022. Doc2graph: a
task agnostic document understanding framework
based on graph neural networks. In European Confer-
ence on Computer Vision, pages 329–344. Springer.
Kamal Gupta, Justin Lazarow, Alessandro Achille,
Larry S Davis, Vijay Mahadevan, and Abhinav Shri-
vastava. 2021. Layouttransformer: Layout genera-
tion and completion with self-attention. In Proceed-
ings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on
Computer Vision, pages 1004–1014.
Mark A Hanson, Pablo Gómez Barreiro, Paolo Crosetto,
and Dan Brockington. 2024. The strain on scientific
publishing. Quantitative Science Studies, 5(4):823–
843.
Sirui Hong, Xiawu Zheng, Jonathan Chen, Yuheng
Cheng, Jinlin Wang, Ceyao Zhang, Zili Wang, Steven
Ka Shing Yau, Zijuan Lin, Liyang Zhou, and 1
others. 2023.
Metagpt: Meta programming for
multi-agent collaborative framework. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2308.00352, 3(4):6.
HsiaoYuan Hsu and Yuxin Peng. 2025. Postero: Struc-
turing layout trees to enable language models in gen-
eralized content-aware layout generation. In Proceed-
ings of the Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
Conference, pages 8117–8127.
Mengkang Hu, Yuhang Zhou, Wendong Fan, Yuzhou
Nie, Bowei Xia, Tao Sun, Ziyu Ye, Zhaoxuan Jin,
Yingru Li, Qiguang Chen, and 1 others. 2025. Owl:
Optimized workforce learning for general multi-
agent assistance in real-world task automation. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2505.23885.
Yupan Huang, Tengchao Lv, Lei Cui, Yutong Lu, and
Furu Wei. 2022. Layoutlmv3: Pre-training for doc-
ument ai with unified text and image masking. In
Proceedings of the 30th ACM international confer-
ence on multimedia, pages 4083–4091.
Naoto Inoue, Kotaro Kikuchi, Edgar Simo-Serra, Mayu
Otani, and Kota Yamaguchi. 2023. Layoutdm: Dis-
crete diffusion model for controllable layout gener-
ation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages
10167–10176.
Vijay Jaisankar, Sambaran Bandyopadhyay, Kalp Vyas,
Varre Chaitanya, and Shwetha Somasundaram. 2024.
Postdoc:
Generating poster from a long multi-
modal document using deep submodular optimiza-
tion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.20213.
Peder Larsen and Markus Von Ins. 2010. The rate of
growth in scientific publication and the decline in
coverage provided by science citation index. Sciento-
metrics, 84(3):575–603.
Seongyun Lee, Seungone Kim, Sue Park, Geewook
Kim, and Minjoon Seo. 2024. Prometheus-vision:
Vision-language model as a judge for fine-grained
evaluation. In Findings of the association for compu-
tational linguistics ACL 2024, pages 11286–11315.
Guohao Li, Hasan Hammoud, Hani Itani, Dmitrii
Khizbullin, and Bernard Ghanem. 2023.
Camel:
Communicative agents for" mind" exploration of
large language model society. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 36:51991–52008.
Jianan Li, Jimei Yang, Jianming Zhang, Chang Liu,
Christina Wang, and Tingfa Xu. 2020. Attribute-
conditioned layout gan for automatic graphic design.
IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer
Graphics, 27(10):4039–4048.
Long Li, Weiwen Xu, Jiayan Guo, Ruochen Zhao,
Xingxuan Li, Yuqian Yuan, Boqiang Zhang, Yuming
Jiang, Yifei Xin, Ronghao Dang, and 1 others. 2024.
Chain of ideas: Revolutionizing research via novel
idea development with llm agents. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.13185.
Jiawei Lin, Jiaqi Guo, Shizhao Sun, Zijiang Yang, Jian-
Guang Lou, and Dongmei Zhang. 2023. Layout-
prompter: Awaken the design ability of large lan-
guage models. Advances in Neural Information Pro-
cessing Systems, 36:43852–43879.
Rada Mihalcea and Paul Tarau. 2004. Textrank: Bring-
ing order into text. In Proceedings of the 2004 con-
ference on empirical methods in natural language
processing, pages 404–411.
Wei Pang, Kevin Qinghong Lin, Xiangru Jian, Xi He,
and Philip Torr. 2025. Paper2poster: Towards mul-
timodal poster automation from scientific papers.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.21497.
Chen Qian, Wei Liu, Hongzhang Liu, Nuo Chen, Yufan
Dang, Jiahao Li, Cheng Yang, Weize Chen, Yusheng
Su, Xin Cong, and 1 others. 2023. Chatdev: Com-
municative agents for software development. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2307.07924.
Yu-Ting Qiang, Yan-Wei Fu, Xiao Yu, Yan-Wen Guo,
Zhi-Hua Zhou, and Leonid Sigal. 2019. Learning to
generate posters of scientific papers by probabilistic
graphical models. Journal of Computer Science and
Technology, 34(1):155–169.
Yuting Qiang, Yanwei Fu, Yanwen Guo, Zhi-Hua Zhou,
and Leonid Sigal. 2016. Learning to generate posters
of scientific papers.
In Proceedings of the AAAI
Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 30.
Johannes Rausch, Octavio Martinez, Fabian Bissig,
Ce Zhang, and Stefan Feuerriegel. 2021. Docparser:
Hierarchical document structure parsing from ren-
derings. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on
Artificial Intelligence, volume 35, pages 4328–4338.

--- PAGE 11 ---
Rohit Saxena, Pasquale Minervini, and Frank Keller.
2025.
Postersum: A multimodal benchmark for
scientific poster summarization.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2502.17540.
Minju Seo, Jinheon Baek, Seongyun Lee, and Sung Ju
Hwang. 2025. Paper2code: Automating code gen-
eration from scientific papers in machine learning.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.17192.
Zhihong Shao, Peiyi Wang, Qihao Zhu, Runxin Xu,
Junxiao Song, Xiao Bi, Haowei Zhang, Mingchuan
Zhang, YK Li, Yang Wu, and 1 others. 2024.
Deepseekmath: Pushing the limits of mathematical
reasoning in open language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2402.03300.
Tao Sun, Enhao Pan, Zhengkai Yang, Kaixin Sui, Jiajun
Shi, Xianfu Cheng, Tongliang Li, Wenhao Huang,
Ge Zhang, Jian Yang, and 1 others. 2025. P2p: Au-
tomated paper-to-poster generation and fine-grained
benchmark. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.17104.
Gemma Team, Thomas Mesnard, Cassidy Hardin,
Robert Dadashi, Surya Bhupatiraju, Shreya Pathak,
Laurent Sifre, Morgane Rivière, Mihir Sanjay Kale,
Juliette Love, and 1 others. 2024. Gemma: Open
models based on gemini research and technology.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.08295.
Khanh-Tung Tran, Dung Dao, Minh-Duong Nguyen,
Quoc-Viet Pham, Barry O’Sullivan, and Hoang D
Nguyen. 2025.
Multi-agent collaboration mech-
anisms:
A survey of llms.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2501.06322.
Hao Wang, Shohei Tanaka, and Yoshitaka Ushiku. 2024.
Scipostlayout: A dataset for layout analysis and lay-
out generation of scientific posters. In Proceedings
of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition, pages 8136–8141.
Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten
Bosma, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc V Le, Denny Zhou,
and 1 others. 2022. Chain-of-thought prompting elic-
its reasoning in large language models. Advances
in neural information processing systems, 35:24824–
24837.
Sheng Xu and Xiaojun Wan. 2021.
Neural content
extraction for poster generation of scientific papers.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2112.08550.
Shunyu Yao, Dian Yu, Jeffrey Zhao, Izhak Shafran,
Tom Griffiths, Yuan Cao, and Karthik Narasimhan.
2023. Tree of thoughts: Deliberate problem solving
with large language models.
Advances in neural
information processing systems, 36:11809–11822.
Haofei Yu, Zhaochen Hong, Zirui Cheng, Kunlun
Zhu, Keyang Xuan, Jinwei Yao, Tao Feng, and
Jiaxuan You. 2024.
Researchtown:
Simulator
of human research community.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.17767.
Yue Zhang, Zhihao Zhang, Wenbin Lai, Chong Zhang,
Tao Gui, Qi Zhang, and Xuan-Jing Huang. 2024a.
Pdf-to-tree: Parsing pdf text blocks into a tree. In
Findings of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics: EMNLP 2024, pages 10704–10714.
Yusen Zhang, Ruoxi Sun, Yanfei Chen, Tomas Pfister,
Rui Zhang, and Sercan Arik. 2024b. Chain of agents:
Large language models collaborating on long-context
tasks. Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 37:132208–132237.
Zhuosheng Zhang, Aston Zhang, Mu Li, Hai Zhao,
George Karypis, and Alex Smola. 2023.
Multi-
modal chain-of-thought reasoning in language mod-
els. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.00923.
Zhiyuan Zhao, Hengrui Kang, Bin Wang, and Conghui
He. 2024. Doclayout-yolo: Enhancing document
layout analysis through diverse synthetic data and
global-to-local adaptive perception. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.12628.
Guangcong Zheng, Xianpan Zhou, Xuewei Li, Zhon-
gang Qi, Ying Shan, and Xi Li. 2023. Layoutdif-
fusion: Controllable diffusion model for layout-to-
image generation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recog-
nition, pages 22490–22499.
Hao Zheng, Xinyan Guan, Hao Kong, Jia Zheng, Weixi-
ang Zhou, Hongyu Lin, Yaojie Lu, Ben He, Xianpei
Han, and Le Sun. 2025. Pptagent: Generating and
evaluating presentations beyond text-to-slides. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2501.03936.

--- PAGE 12 ---
Supplementary Material
A
Additional Qualitative Results
Additional results for scientific poster generation
are presented in Figure A1 and Figure A2.
B
Experimental Details
B.1
Qualitative Experiments Setup
Standardization. To ensure a fair comparison
across different methods, all posters were gener-
ated with a standardized width of 48 inches and
height of 36 inches. In addition, the color schemes
and font styles were unified for all posters, eliminat-
ing visual biases related to design choices. These
controls allow the qualitative evaluation to focus
solely on the content and layout quality produced
by each model.
B.2
Quantitative Experiments Setup
Dataset Details. For all quantitative experiments,
we use the Paper2Poster benchmark (Pang et al.,
2025), which is the first large-scale dataset for sci-
entific poster generation. The benchmark consists
of 100 paper–poster pairs curated from recent AI
conferences, including NeurIPS, ICML, and ICLR
(2022–2024). Each pair includes a full-length re-
search paper and its corresponding author-designed
poster, enabling rigorous evaluation of poster gen-
eration models.
The dataset ensures high quality and diversity
by selecting papers from a range of AI subfields
such as computer vision, natural language process-
ing, and reinforcement learning. The input papers
average 22.6 pages and 12,156 words, with an av-
erage of 22.6 figures per paper. The corresponding
posters contain about 774 words and 8.7 figures on
average, resulting in a significant compression of
both textual and visual content.
To avoid data leakage, only the test split of the
POSTERSUM dataset (Saxena et al., 2025) was
used when curating the benchmark. Papers were
filtered to include the latest camera-ready versions
and to ensure a broad distribution across years and
venues. This benchmark provides a challenging
setting for evaluating poster generation methods in
terms of both informativeness and layout quality.
B.3
Implementation Details
All experiments were conducted on a server run-
ning Ubuntu 22.04 LTS, equipped with an AMD
EPYC 7543 CPU and eight NVIDIA RTX A6000
GPUs (48 GB each). Four GPUs were allocated
to Qwen-2.5-7B-Instruct and four to Qwen2.5-VL-
7B-Instruct, using PyTorch 2.6.0. Random seeds
were fixed for Python, NumPy, and PyTorch to
ensure experimental reproducibility.
B.4
Hyperparameters
The maximum number of tree refinement iterations
was set to Tmax = 2. Pilot studies showed that ad-
ditional exchanges between agents did not yield
significant improvements. These hyperparameters
were chosen to balance generation quality and com-
putational efficiency.
B.5
Detailed Baseline Setup
For
figure
extraction
in
P2P,
we
adopted
DocLayout-YOLO (Zhao et al., 2024). The Poster-
Agent model in Paper2Poster was implemented in
two variants: one utilizing GPT-4o and the other
employing open-source Qwen models, specifically
Qwen-2.5-7B and Qwen-2.5-VL-7B.
C
Evaluation Metric and Rationale
C.1
Reason for Metric Selection
Our evaluation metrics were selected to comprehen-
sively assess the effectiveness of scientific poster
generation from multiple perspectives.
Human
evaluation was conducted using four criteria: con-
tent fidelity, visual harmony, structural effective-
ness, and overall completeness. These metrics re-
flect the need for posters to accurately summarize
findings, present information attractively and logi-
cally, and maintain a professional appearance.
Although MLLM-as-a-judge metrics (e.g., GPT-
4o) enable fine-grained assessment of informative-
ness and aesthetics (Pang et al., 2025), they have
limitations. Discrepancies between ground truth
and generated posters are often better detected
by human observers than by automated metrics.
However, with advances in multimodal evalua-
tion, MLLM-based metrics are expected to become
more reliable.
C.2
User Study Details
We recruited 25 graduate students with experience
in academic conferences. Each participant evalu-
ated 10 pairs of papers and posters generated by
four methods: GPT-4o HTML, P2P (Sun et al.,
2025), Paper2Poster (Pang et al., 2025), and Poster-
Forest. Posters were standardized for font and color.

--- PAGE 13 ---
(a) GT
(b) P2P
(c) Paper2Poster
(d) Ours
Figure A1: Additional Qualitative Comparison [1/2]. Posters generated with the GPT-4o framework of baseline
methods and PosterForest, based on papers spanning different AI conferences, along with the original posters (GT)
created by the authors.
Participants viewed the original poster and four
generated posters in randomized order, judging
based on content fidelity, aesthetic quality, struc-
tural clarity, and overall quality.
D
Limitations and Future Work
D.1
Failure Cases
While our hierarchical approach improves global
understanding of paper structure, there remain no-
table limitations compared to human designers. In
particular, our framework struggles when process-
ing papers containing a large number of figures or
tables, especially when such assets are densely clus-
tered or heavily interleaved within the text. These
scenarios often result in errors during asset pars-
ing and content matching, which can propagate
through subsequent stages of the pipeline. As a
result, missing or misaligned visual elements accu-
mulate, further degrading the informativeness and
visual coherence of the generated posters.
Figure A3a illustrates an example paper in which
many figures are densely arranged within a short
span of text. As shown in Figure A3b, the gener-
ated poster for this case exhibits clear failures, with
several figures missing or incorrectly matched to
their respective sections. This example demon-
strates how dense and complex visual layouts
present a significant challenge for the current pars-
ing and matching pipeline, ultimately limiting the
quality of the generated output.
While improving the performance of parsers
such as Docling is not the primary focus of this
work, enhancing asset parsing and extraction re-
mains an important avenue for future research. Ad-
vances in these components could further improve
the overall robustness and quality of the poster
generation framework, especially when handling
papers with complex and densely interleaved visual
elements.
D.2
Future Directions
From a modeling perspective, future work will fo-
cus on enhancing the framework’s ability to ro-
bustly parse and reason over complex layouts, par-
ticularly in papers with densely interleaved figures
and tables. Incorporating more advanced hierarchi-
cal modeling and visual-semantic alignment tech-
niques may further narrow the gap with human-
designed posters. For example, human designers
intuitively adjust the placement and scale of figures
based on factors such as the amount of information

--- PAGE 14 ---
(a) GT
(b) P2P
(c) Paper2Poster
(d) Ours
Figure A2: Additional Qualitative Comparison [2/2]. Posters generated with the GPT-4o framework of baseline
methods and PosterForest, based on papers spanning different AI conferences, along with the original posters (GT)
created by the authors.
conveyed, perceived importance, and the context of
each figure, as well as considerations like font size
and spatial balance. However, our current frame-
work does not yet fully capture the relative impor-
tance or semantic richness of individual figures and
their optimal integration within the layout. Mod-
eling these nuanced factors in future work could
enable more practical and human-aligned poster
generation.
From the perspective of evaluation, we plan to
build upon the metrics introduced in P2P (Sun et al.,
2025) and Paper2Poster (Pang et al., 2025) to de-
velop more reliable and comprehensive automated
metrics for poster quality assessment. Improving
automated evaluation protocols is crucial for ac-
curately measuring progress and guiding future
research in scientific poster generation.
E
Additional Materials
E.1
Parser Agent, AParser.
The Parser Agent parses the raw scientific docu-
ment into a hierarchical tree structure, organizing
components such as titles, sections, subsections,
paragraphs, and visual assets for further processing
by other agents. An example prompt is provided in
Figure A4.
Collaborative Poster Optimization. This crite-
rion assesses the overall arrangement, alignment,
and spacing of text and graphics to ensure a coher-
ent and readable poster structure.
E.2
Summarizing Agent, ASumm.
The Summarizing Agent is responsible for pruning,
merging, and summarizing essential information
from each section, subsection, and paragraph of
the document. It removes nonessential details to
improve clarity and density, producing a content

--- PAGE 15 ---
Example input paper containing a dense cluster of figures.
Generated poster with missing or misaligned visual elements
due to parsing failures.
Figure A3: An example of a failure case arising from
clustered figures in the input paper. The parser fails
to correctly extract and match all figures, leading to
incomplete or incorrectly structured visual content in
the poster.
tree optimized for poster presentation. An example
prompt is provided in Figure A5.
E.3
Content Agent, AContent.
The Content Agent evaluates and refines the quality
and clarity of textual content at each node of the
Poster Tree. It adjusts text volume, resolves redun-
dancy, and selects appropriate information for each
panel in collaboration with the Layout Agent. An
example prompt is provided in Figure A6.
E.4
Layout Agent, ALayout.
The Layout Agent assesses and adjusts the spatial
arrangement, visual balance, and aspect ratio of
each panel. It collaborates with the Content Agent
to ensure appropriate allocation of space and a vi-
sually coherent poster layout. An example prompt
is provided in Figure A7.
E.5
Feedback Agent, AFeedback.
The feedback Agent reviews the rendered poster
tree and judges three aspects—visual organiza-
tion, textual structure, and hierarchical balance.
It returns concise, structured feedback and a bi-
nary continue decision indicating whether another
tree-level refinement should proceed. An example
prompt is provided in Figure A8.

--- PAGE 16 ---
Parser Agent [1/2]
You are a document structure analysis expert who creates hierarchical tree representations of academic papers for poster
generation.
Given a markdown document and extracted figure/table captions, analyze the structure and create a hierarchical tree
representation focusing on the logical flow guided by visual elements.
Caption-Guided Strategy:
• Primary Guidance: Use figure/table captions to identify main sections and subsections.
• Section Identification: Group content around figures/tables with related captions.
• Logical Flow: Organize sections based on narrative flow indicated by visual elements.
• Content Mapping: Map text content to the section most relevant to nearby figures/tables.
Available Figure/Table Information:
Figures:
• { % if figures_info %} { % for fig_id, fig_info in figures_info.items() %}
– Figure {{ fig_id }}{ % if fig_info.caption_number %} (from "Figure {{ fig_info.caption_number }}" in
caption){ % endif %}: {{ fig_info.caption }}
{ % endfor %}
{ % endif %}
Tables:
• { % if tables_info %} { % for table_id, table_info in tables_info.items() %}
– Table {{ table_id }}{ % if table_info.caption_number %} (from "Table {{ table_info.caption_number }}"
in caption){ % endif %}: {{ table_info.caption }}
{ % endfor %}
{ % endif %}
Requirements:
• Preserve Paper Structure: Maintain the original paper’s hierarchical structure without depth limitations.
• Caption-driven Sections: Create sections based on figure/table themes and captions.
• Preserve All Content: Include complete original text without truncation or summarization.
• No Depth Limits: Allow arbitrary nesting depth.
• Each node requires: id, title, type, content, assets, children.
• Asset Reference Format: Use actual figure/table IDs (e.g., "2", "3", "1").
• Asset Assignment: Assign figures/tables to most relevant sections.
Asset ID Reference Rules:
• { % if figures_info %}
– For figures, use exact IDs in the "figures" array: [{ % for fig_id in figures_info.keys() %}"fig_id"{ %
if not loop.last %}, { % endif %}{ % endfor %}] { % endif %}
• { %
if
tables_info
%} For tables, use exact IDs in the "tables" array:
[{ %
for
table_id
in
tables_info.keys() %}"table_id"{ % if not loop.last %}, { % endif %}{ % endfor %}] { % endif
%}

--- PAGE 17 ---
Parser Agent [2/2]
Caption-Based Section Strategy:
1. Identify themes from figure/table captions.
2. Group related content around visual elements.
3. Create section titles reflecting caption themes.
4. Assign figures/tables to relevant sections using exact IDs.
5. Ensure logical flow (introduction→methodology→results).
6. Preserve hierarchical depth as in the original paper.
Structure Rules:
• Root: Contains title, authors, abstract, and metadata.
• Sections: May contain content and/or subsections.
• Subsections: Arbitrary depth, may contain content or further subsections.
• Content Preservation: All text content preserved entirely.
• Asset Assignment: Figures/tables assigned at any section/subsection level.
Example (Multi-level Hierarchy with Preserved Structure):
{
"tree": {
"id": "root",
"title": "Paper Title: Subtitle",
"type": "title",
"content ": "Complete paper title , authors , affiliations , and full
abstract content ...",
"assets ": {" figures ": [], "tables ": [], "references ": []},
"children ": [
{
"id": "1",
"title": "Introduction",
"type": "section",
"content ": "Full introduction content ...",
"assets ": {" figures ": ["1"] , "tables ": [], "references ": []},
"children ": [
{
"id": "1.1",
"title": "Problem Statement",
"type": "subsection",
"content ": "Detailed problem statement content ...",
"assets ": {" figures ": [], "tables ": [], "references ": []},
"children ": [
{
"id": "1.1.1" ,
"title": "Current Limitations",
"type": "subsubsection",
"content ": "Detailed limitations content ...",
"assets ": {" figures ": [], "tables ": [], "references ": []},
"children ": []
}]
}]
}]
}
}
Document to Analyze:
{{ markdown_document }}
Generate the hierarchical tree structure as JSON, preserving the original paper’s complete structure and depth.
Figure A4: Parser Agent prompt example.

--- PAGE 18 ---
Summarizing Agent
You are a document content divider and extractor specialist, expert in dividing and extracting content from various types
of documents and reorganizing it into a two-level JSON format for later PPT generation.
Based on the given markdown document, generate a JSON output for later PPT generation. Ensure the output is concise
and focused.
Step-by-Step Instructions:
1. Identify Sections and Subsections: Detect sections and subsections based on heading levels and logical structure.
2. Divide Content: Organize content into sections and subsections, ensuring each subsection contains approximately
500 words.
3. Refine Titles: Use existing headings as titles, otherwise create relevant titles.
4. Remove Unwanted Elements: Eliminate headers, footers, and text surrounded by ~~ indicating deletion.
5. Refine Text: Remove unnecessary (citations) or trivial (repetitive, non-important) content for conciseness.
Example Output:
{
"metadata ": {
"title": "title of document",
"author ": "name of authors",
"publish date": "date of publication",
"organization ": "name of organization"
},
"sections ": [
{
"title": "title of section1",
"subsections ": [
{
"title": "title of subsection1 .1",
"content ": "content of subsection1 .1"
},
{
"title": "title of subsection1 .2",
"content ": "content of subsection1 .2"
}
]
},
{
"title": "title of section2",
"subsections ": [
{
"title": "title of subsection2 .1",
"content ": "content of subsection2 .1"
}
]
}
]
}
Document Input:
{{ markdown_document }}
Give your output in JSON format.
Figure A5: Summarizing Agent prompt example.

--- PAGE 19 ---
Content Agent [1/2]
System Prompt:
You are the Content Agent, an expert in scientific content clarity and efficiency. Your primary goal is to ensure content
within a scientific poster is clear, concise, and logically structured.
## Goal
• current_volume_ratio = current fill percentage of the space.
• Adjust the text so the final ratio is as close to 100% as possible, without exceeding it.
• Acceptable range: 80–100%, but closer to 100% is best.
• Always edit the given JSON (poster bullet schema) in place.
• Output only a JSON array (no explanations).
## Hierarchical Awareness
1. Poster is hierarchical: parent →children; siblings share a level.
2. Use current_content as this node’s main source only for expansion.
3. Use sibling_contents to avoid redundancy and ensure complementary focus.
## Output rules
1. Return only a JSON array where each element is a bullet object.
2. Do NOT output plain strings, nested arrays, or any other format.
3. Each bullet object must exactly follow this schema (mandatory):
{
"alignment ": "left",
"bullet ": true ,
"level": <integer >,
"runs": [ { "text": "<bullet text >" } ]
}
Expand Template:
Instructions:
1) Expand toward 100%.
• current_volume_ratio is {{ current_volume_ratio }}%.
• Target is 100%. Expand so the final length is about (100 - current_volume_ratio)% longer.
• Do not add all possible details at once; add gradually, starting with the most important points, and monitor length
as you go.
• Stop once you estimate you’ve reached the target delta; if still under 95%, leave the rest for later passes.
2) Increase length by:
• Splitting existing bullets into smaller, clearer ones.
• Adding concise sub-bullets with extra details from current_content.
• Include key concepts, mechanisms, methods, assumptions, limitations, and results.
• Prefer precise or quantitative facts (counts, thresholds, time, cost, accuracy).
3) Avoid repeating siblings unless you add new perspective.
4) Output rule: Return only a JSON array of bullet objects following the schema.
• The format must exactly match previous_response (same keys).
• No strings, no explanations, no extra keys.

--- PAGE 20 ---
Content Agent [2/2]
## Output Example
[
{ "alignment ": "left", "bullet ": true , "level ": 0, "runs": [ { "text": "
Our method boosts CIFAR -10 accuracy by 15% while cutting training
cost 40%." } ] },
{ "alignment ": "left", "bullet ": true , "level ": 0, "runs": [ { "text": "
Key: adaptive LR and aggressive data augmentation ." } ] }
]
previous_response:
{{ previous_response }}
current_content:
{{ current_content }}
sibling_contents:
{{ sibling_contents }}
current_volume_ratio:
{{ current_volume_ratio }}
Condense Template:
Instructions:
1) Condense toward 100%.
• current_volume_ratio is {{ current_volume_ratio }}%.
• Target is 100%. Condense so the final length is about (100 - current_volume_ratio)% shorter.
• Merge bullets into fewer ones, but keep each sentence short and crisp, until the ratio is near 100%.
• Stop once you estimate you’ve reached the target delta; if still above 105%, leave deeper cuts for later passes.
2) Remove overlap with siblings:
• Drop background/definitions if already covered in sibling_contents.
3) Structural compression:
• Keep only the most essential contributions, numbers, or distinctions.
• Sub-bullets should be folded into parent unless critical.
4) Output rule: Return only a JSON array of bullet objects following the schema.
• The format must exactly match previous_response (same keys).
• No strings, no explanations, no extra keys.
## Output Example
[
{ "alignment ": "left", "bullet ": true , "level ": 0, "runs": [ { "text": "
Our method improves accuracy while cutting cost." } ] }
]
previous_response:
{{ previous_response }}
sibling_contents:
{{ sibling_contents }}
current_volume_ratio:
{{ current_volume_ratio }}
Figure A6: Content Agent prompt example.

--- PAGE 21 ---
Layout Agent [1/2]
System Prompt:
You are the Layout Agent for scientific posters. Your task is to determine which panel to enlarge and by how much (∆),
based on figure legibility balance within the red analysis box. Inside the red box, green boxes represent panels and blue
boxes represent figures.
## Goal
• Equalize figure legibility across panels using small, gradual changes.
• Do NOT optimize by raw figure size or panel area.
## Legibility Definition
• Charts/Tables: judge by *perceived text size* (axis ticks, labels, legends, numbers).
• Method/Diagram/Schematic/Workflow: even with little/no text, judge by structural complexity (component count,
branching, arrow/box density, nested sub-panels, tiny icons). Treat complex diagrams as if they contained implicit
small text.
• A panel is “harder to read” if it has smaller text OR higher visual complexity.
## Priorities
1) Shape Sanity
• Avoid creating extremely tall–narrow panels.
2) Legibility Balance (Hard Rule)
• If one panel is harder to read →enlarge that panel.
• Do NOT enlarge panels already comfortable to read.
• Ignore raw figure size/area.
## Direction Mapping
• ‘split_type=’vertical’‘ →enlarge LEFT or RIGHT.
• ‘split_type=’horizontal’‘ →enlarge TOP or BOTTOM.
## ∆(Delta): Magnitude of Enlargement ∆is a continuous scale from 0 to 5, representing how strongly to enlarge the
harder-to-read panel.
• 0 →No adjustment (balanced or shape risk)
• 1–2 →Very subtle adjustment
• 3–4 →Moderate adjustment
• 5 →Maximum safe enlargement
Choose ∆proportionally to the severity of the legibility imbalance.
## Output Format (strict JSON)
{
"direction ": "<LEFT|RIGHT|TOP|BOTTOM >",
"delta": <0-5>,
"reason ": "Action: enlarge {LEFT|RIGHT|TOP|BOTTOM }. Rationale: describe
legibility comparison (text -size + diagram -complexity) and shape
consideration ."
}

--- PAGE 22 ---
Layout Agent [2/2]
Template:
## CONTEXT
• Split Type: {{ split_type }}
## Task
1) Assess legibility for each panel:
• Charts/Tables →text-size
• Diagrams/Method figures →structural complexity (implicit small text)
2) Pick the panel to enlarge = harder-to-read panel.
3) Choose ∆(0–5) proportional to how severe the imbalance is.
• 0 = no change, 5 = strongest possible enlargement.
• No strings, no explanations, no extra keys.
4) Output strict JSON with fields ‘direction‘, ‘delta‘, ‘reason‘.
## Example Outputs
LEFT enlarge (vertical)
{
"direction ": "LEFT",
"delta": 5,
"reason ": "Action: enlarge LEFT. Retionale: left diagrams are visually
complex with many branches; prevent tall -narrow shape ."
}
RIGHT enlarge (vertical)
{
"direction ": "RIGHT",
"delta": 4,
"reason ": "Action: enlarge UP. Rationale: right schematic is more
complex and crowded , but difference is subtle; shape remains
stable ."
}
TOP enlarge (horizontal)
{
"direction ": "TOP",
"delta": 3,
"reason ": "Action: enlarge TOP. Rationale: top panel contains dense
multi -axis plots with fine labels; bottom is simpler; shape
acceptable ."
}
BOTTOM enlarge (horizontal)
{
"direction ": "BOTTOM",
"delta": 1,
"reason ": "Action: enlarge BOTTOM. Rationale: bottom diagrams slightly
denser than top; minimal adjustment applied to prevent tall -
narrow distortion ."
}
Figure A7: Layout Agent prompt example.

--- PAGE 23 ---
Feedback Agent
System Prompt:
You are a scientific poster evaluator. You will see a poster image.
## Evaluate the poster against THREE criteria:
• Visual organization: alignment/grid consistency, whitespace, figure–text balance, crowding/overflow.
• Textual structure: redundancy, truncation/overflow, missing context, uneven verbosity.
• Hierarchical balance: section order, parent–child locality, consistent heading levels, grouping coherence.
## Decision rule:
• Assess all three criteria and note any failures.
• Output ONLY:
reason →1–2 sentences summarizing the key issue(s) or that the poster is fine.
continue →1 if any criterion fails (further work needed), else 0.
Final Output Format:
{
"reason ": "<1-2 sentences >",
"continue ": 0 | 1
}
Template:
Insturction :
1. Examine the poster image.
2. Visual organization (fail if any apply):
• Misaligned grid, cramped/excessive whitespace, figure–text size mismatch, or crowding/overflow.
3. Textual structure (fail if any apply):
• Redundancy, truncated/overflowing text, missing context, or uneven verbosity across sections.
4. Hierarchical balance (fail if any apply):
• Disordered section flow, inconsistent heading levels, weak parent–child locality, poor grouping coherence.
5. Decide "continue":
• If any of the above fail →continue = 1
• If none fail →continue = 0
6. Output only a single JSON object with keys: reason, continue
## Output Example (issues found)
{
"reason ": "Figures overpower adjacent text and subsections are
detached from their parent sections , disrupting flow.",
"continue ": 1
}
## Output Example (no issues)
{
"reason ": "Content is well -explained with balanced figures and
consistent hierarchy .",
"continue ": 0
}
Figure A8: Feedback Agent prompt example.
